Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center Commander Maj. Gen. Tom Wilcox (head of table) is joined by other AFIMSC and Air Force senior leaders during the Installation and Mission Support Weapons and Tactics Conference out-briefs April 21 at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland, Texas. Four teams tasked with tackling the Air and Space Forces’ most significant Agile Combat Support challenges presented their recommendations to this group and a virtual audience of more than 500 Air and Space Force senior officials, mission support leaders and their peers. The Air Force will now analyze the teams’ ideas to determine their feasibility. (U.S. Air Force photo by Joe Bela)
The United States Air Force (USAF) is the air service branch of the United States Armed Forces. It is one of the eight U.S. uniformed services. Initially formed as a part of the United States Army on 1 August 1907, the USAF was established as a separate branch of the U.S. Armed Forces on 18 September 1947 with the passing of the National Security Act of 1947. It is the second youngest branch of the U.S. Armed Forces[a] and the fourth in order of precedence. The U.S. Air Force articulates its core missions as air superiority, global integrated intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance, rapid global mobility, global strike, and command and control.The U.S. Air Force is a military service branch organized within the Department of the Air Force, one of the three military departments of the Department of Defense. The Air Force through the Department of the Air Force is headed by the civilian Secretary of the Air Force, who reports to the Secretary of Defense and is appointed by the President with Senate confirmation. The highest-ranking military officer in the Air Force is the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, who exercises supervision over Air Force units and serves as one of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. As directed by the Secretary of Defense and Secretary of the Air Force, certain Air Force components are assigned to unified combatant commands. Combatant commanders are delegated operational authority of the forces assigned to them, while the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief of Staff of the Air Force retain administrative authority over their members.
Col. Robert C. Bearden is the Commander, Detachment 9, Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center, Scott Air Force Base, Ill. He is responsible for synchronizing installation and mission support capabilities, to include oversight, guidance, training, and resources in support of 70,000 personnel in 17 wings. Additionally, he manages personnel readiness, mission support manpower, financial services and resources, installation engineering, physical security, and base communications plant maintenance for the support of more than $24 billion in facilities and infrastructure at 23 continental U.S. and overseas en route locations.
Joint forces conducted a wargame focused solely on energy and fuel logistics for the first time ever in 2019. Air Force Operational Energy was a key partner in establishing the Joint Forces Energy Wargame, sponsored by the Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Energy and hosted by the U.S. Indo-Pacific Command to identify critical energy challenges along the fuel distribution network.Throughout the year and leading up to the JFEW in August, a team of subject matter experts participated in on-going discussions and working groups to integrate operational energy and fuel logistics scenarios into the wargame. The team helped develop solutions to complex operational energy challenges from refinery and bulk transport to storage, transit and delivery of fuel.
The 62nd FS activated in January 2015 at Luke Air Force Base as a joint international effort between Italy, Norway and the United States for F-35 training. Student pilots from each of the three nations fly Italian, Norwegian and American F-35s under the guidance of American and Norwegian instructor pilots.
The Air Force Installation Contracting Center is a worldwide-postured organization headquartered at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio, providing responsive and mission-enabling enterprise acquisition solutions for efficient and effective mission and installation operations across the Air Force. In addition to the AFICC headquarters and staff, AFICC operating locations are collocated with Air Force major command headquarters, eight enterprise sourcing squadrons aligned with categories of effort under the Air Force Category Management program (the 772nd Enterprise Sourcing Squadron that supports civil engineering, located in San Antonio with the Air Force Civil Engineer Center for example) and the Defense Technical Information Center at Offutt AFB, Nebraska. AFICC has over 750 personnel, performing above-wing contracting across the Air Force enterprise and supporting over 3,000 contracting professionals executing Air Force missions worldwide, approximately $58 billion over the last five years.
For Tyndall Air Force Base, identifying the enemy has taken on a heightened sense of urgency since Hurricane Michael’s landfall on Oct. 10, 2018. The storm not only leveled the base, it also wreaked havoc on the lives of Airmen, civilian employees and family members displaced and impacted. Since then, the struggle to recover has not only been a physical one, but increasingly mental and emotional as well.
Exercise Polar Force 20-1 allowed Soldiers and Airmen from units across Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson, Alaska, to develop and strengthen the skills required to operate in austere environments and in adverse situations
Goal 1: Optimize InfrastructureThe Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.Goal 2: Increase Installation ResiliencyThis goal creates tools and actionable plans to ensure the execution of mission-critical priorities for installation and mission support are aligned with higher headquarters and Air Force priorities. This will reduce vulnerabilities while enhancing our ability to protect, respond and recover from disruptions to operations and supporting infrastructure.
The United States Air Force (USAF) is the air service branch of the United States Armed Forces. It is one of the eight U.S. uniformed services. Initially formed as a part of the United States Army on 1 August 1907, the USAF was established as a separate branch of the U.S. Armed Forces on 18 September 1947 with the passing of the National Security Act of 1947. It is the second youngest branch of the U.S. Armed Forces[a] and the fourth in order of precedence. The U.S. Air Force articulates its core missions as air superiority, global integrated intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance, rapid global mobility, global strike, and command and control.
The U.S. Air Force is a military service branch organized within the Department of the Air Force, one of the three military departments of the Department of Defense. The Air Force through the Department of the Air Force is headed by the civilian Secretary of the Air Force, who reports to the Secretary of Defense and is appointed by the President with Senate confirmation. The highest-ranking military officer in the Air Force is the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, who exercises supervision over Air Force units and serves as one of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. As directed by the Secretary of Defense and Secretary of the Air Force, certain Air Force components are assigned to unified combatant commands. Combatant commanders are delegated operational authority of the forces assigned to them, while the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief of Staff of the Air Force retain administrative authority over their members.
The U.S. Army is a uniformed service of the United States and is part of the Department of the Army, which is one of the three military departments of the Department of Defense. The U.S. Army is headed by a civilian senior appointed civil servant, the secretary of the Army (SECARMY) and by a chief military officer, the chief of staff of the Army (CSA) who is also a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. It is the largest military branch, and in the fiscal year 2020, the projected end strength for the Regular Army (USA) was 480,893 soldiers; the Army National Guard (ARNG) had 336,129 soldiers and the U.S. Army Reserve (USAR) had 188,703 soldiers; the combined-component strength of the U.S. Army was 1,005,725 soldiers.
Is a cost reimbursement based allowance to help 
defray housing costs incident to assignments to a PDS outside the United States. Members 
are reimbursed actual rental costs not to exceed the maximum OHA rate for each locality 
and grade. There are two types of allowances paid under OHA, Move-In Housing 
Allowance (MIHA) and monthly OHA including a utility/recurring maintenance allowance. 
The location MIHA (for those who qualify) is based on the average “move-in” costs for 
members. The monthly OHA is the rent, up to the rental allowance at a PDS, plus the 
utility/recurring maintenance allowance.
Accomplishes Fund Certification Official duties to verify funds availability for provided accounting classification (T-1).Creates, logs, and provides to the Orders Approving Official a Pseudo-Social Security Account Number for travelers that do not have an Internal Revenue Service-provided Social Security Account Number (T-1).
Qualifications. Commanders must ensure their appointed Orders Approving Officials are of sufficient rank/grade and training to make sound decisions about the TDY mission and proper entitlements as authorized per the Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation, the JTR, and Air Force DTS Business Rules (T-1). The Orders Approving Official is an individual having the capability to validate TDY requirements and approve/disapprove travel requirements for mission accomplishment within the legal guidance provided by United States Code and applicable Department of Defense and service instructions.
The FY 2020 Operation and Maintenance (O&M) budget funds the day-to-day expensesin support of operational requirements for all Air Force core functions. O&M resourcesdirectly support essential combat enablers such as flying operations, space and cyberspaceoperations, intelligence, logistics, nuclear deterrence, search and rescue, and specialoperations activities. O&M funds are used to operate, sustain, and maintain aircraft,weapon systems, command and control systems, and airfield and base facilities, to achievereadiness goals and to improve the working and living conditions for Air Force personnel.Additionally, this funding purchases critical supplies, equipment and fuel, funds training anddevelopment of Airmen, and is the source of pay and benefits for most civilian personnel.Table 2 displays O&M across the Total Force by component.https://smartpay.gsa.gov/content/state-tax-information
knowledge
Chief Master Sgt. of the Air Force Kaleth O. Wright visited multiple units and hosted an all call at Beale Air Force Base, March 20-21.
Davis-Monthan Air Force Base’s Airmen are known to be strong, resilient and hard-charging. Time and time again the base has proven to be one of the best and has never backed down from the high end fight.
The 412th Electronic Warfare Group is one step closer to bringing the Joint Simulation Environment to life at Edwards Air Force Base. The 412th EWG recently began work to pave the way for ultimately building a new facility to house the JSE.
A total of 12 KC-46As will replace Air Force Reserve Command KC-135 Stratotankers at one of the six candidate locations and 24 KC-46As will replace active-duty KC-135s at one of the two candidate locations.
For the Air Force Materiel Command, making sure new employees receive a great first impression is key to talent management and the driving force behind the continued success of the enterprise acculturation initiative.
The 19th Airlift Wing’s ROCKI 21-02 exercise at Volk Field Air National Guard Base came to a close May 6, as the wing assessed its ability to deploy into theater as a lead Air Expeditionary Wing–becoming Air Mobility Command’s first to experiment with the lead wing construct in a dynamic exercise environment.
Members who are unable to use leave due to military necessity may
accumulate a maximum of 75 days by the end of a fiscal year until 30 Sep 2015. After this
date, the limit will return to the previous 60 day limit of accrued leave. In the event service 
members are unable to use their excess accrued leave prior to 30 September due to mission
requirements, approval may be requested to carryover the excess leave days (Special Leave
Accrual). Direct questions regarding leave to the local Force Support Squadron, local Finance 
office, or AFPC Contact Center
On May 24,2011, the President issued a PresidentialMemorandum on Federal Fleet Performance. In accordance with Section 1 (b) of thePresidential Memorandum and pursuant to Federal Management Regulation 102-34.50(41 CFR 102-34.50), executive fleets are required to achieve maximum fuel efficiency;be limited in motor vehicle body size, engine size, and optional equipment to what isessential to meet agency mission; and be midsize or smaller sedans, except wherelarger sedans are essential to the agency mission. Within 180 days of the date of thePresidential Memorandum, any executive fleet vehicles that are larger than a midsizesedan or do not comply with alternative fueled vehicle (AFV) requirements must bedisclosed on agency websites.
Agencies are encouraged to send any questions or comments to:General Services AdministrationOffice of Governmentwide PolicyOffice of Travel, Transportation and Asset Management (MT)Washington, DC 20417E-mail address: vehicle.policy@gsa.gov
Who do I contact if I'm receiving the wrong entitlement rate for my Aviation Career Incentive Pay (ACIP) / Hazardous Duty Incentive Pay (HDIP)?Who do I contact if I'm receiving the wrong entitlement rate for my Aviation Career Incentive Pay (ACIP) / Hazardous Duty Incentive Pay (HDIP)?
Write only the full year in which the travel began even when the travel crosses into the next calendar year. For example, if your travel began 22Nov2014 and ended 15Feb2015 write 2014 as the year.Write in every stop to/from your temporary duty location and home using the “DEP” and “ARR” rows to make sure you are paid correctly for all stops, including any overnight stays while en route.Also, it is imperative that you return to your permanent duty station (PDS) or home of record (HOR) by the final day on your travel order. For example, the traveler goes TCS to Afghanistan and is authorized 270 days out. The traveler leaves the area of responsibility (AOR) on day 270 but it takes 3 days to return to his PDS bringing the total number of days out to 273. The traveler must obtain an amendment and file a supplemental claim to be reimbursed for travel on those 3 days. Otherwise he will only be paid for the 270 days. Contact the command who issued the original orders to get the amendment.
(a) The Presidential Memorandum -- Federal Fleet Performance, May 24, 2011at http://www. whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/20 11/05/24/presidential-memorandum federal-fleet-performance.(b) GSA has created a web site that is a clearinghouse for information related to the Presidential Memorandum - Federal Fleet Performance and the vehicle allocationmethodology process at http://www.gsa.gov/vam(c) The Department of Energy's Comprehensive Federal Fleet Management Handbook offers extensive guidance on right-sizing fleets with a VAM athttp://www1.eere.energy.gov/femp/pdfs/eo13514_fleethandbook.pdf(d) GSA's Federal Acquisition Service offers AFV guides and manuals, including an AFV product guide at http://www.gsa.gov/portal/contentl1 04224.
Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center leaders recently released results of the AFIMSC section of the Air Force Materiel Command Diversity and Inclusion Survey conducted late last year.Nearly 900 members from across the worldwide AFIMSC enterprise took the survey for a 26-percent response rate.Aggregate data from the report confirms a significant organizational commitment to diversity and inclusion with no major areas of concern. However, results indicate a disparity in awareness of D&I initiatives and positive climate perceptions among differing supervisory levels, with those at lower ranks and grades viewing command efforts less favorably.Consequently, D&I program officials expressed a need for additional emphasis in the following areas:Raising awareness of current Air Force and Air Force Materiel Command diversity activities;Increasing participation in sensing sessions by emphasizing their value;Developing awareness of personal psychological safety when discussing sensitive topics like backgrounds and experiences;Communicating leadership actions following identification of concerns;Providing more transparency in hiring practices and promotions; andCommunicating the process the command follows to allay fear of retaliation and reprisal for those who report discrimination or other illegal personnel practices.“Achieving diversity and inclusion is about having an open dialogue amongst ourselves – at every level of our organization,” said AFIMSC Commander Maj. Gen. Tom Wilcox. “Let’s talk about those sensitive topics. Some of us may be reluctant or afraid at first, but let’s do it and learn from one another. We need to listen with an open mind as respected and valued members of our enterprise, As I’ve said in the past, ultimately, this is about becoming a better team by building lasting and meaningful trust relationships. Our focus is to make AFIMSC a better place for everyone.”As a result of the survey, the AFIMSC D&I Council is developing action plans to enhance education and training across the enterprise.“We’ve identified some areas for improvement, particularly with sensing sessions,” said Robert Jackson, director of personnel, who oversees AFIMSC D&I efforts. “Our emphasis on sensing sessions requires us to address psychological safety when discussing our own backgrounds and experiences in a diverse group setting. Although we encourage free and open communication, we know now we need to shape the sessions and better define them.”The survey helped determine a baseline for D&I perceptions across AFMC, with future assessments planned to evaluate progress and further diversity, equity and inclusion across the command. More than 14,000 military and civilian Airmen in AFMC responded to the survey, which ran from Nov. 30-Dec. 21, 2020. Participants provided more than 3,500 comments in response to the open-ended section.According to AFMC officials, information gathered will be used to adjust some of the command’s ongoing activities, to include modifying the communication strategy to target those who may not be aware of the efforts and to encourage increased engagement by first-line supervisors.For up-to-date information on AFMC diversity and inclusion efforts, visit https://www.afmc.af.mil/About-Us/Featured-Topics/Diversity/.
With the right contacts, tools and resources, a person can do just about anything.At the Air Force Materiel Command, a new initiative aims to better prepare leaders to develop more resilient Airmen and support suicide prevention activities across the mission.In a memo issued this month, Lt. Gen. Carl Schaefer, AFMC deputy commander, established a 30-day window for a new leaders to conduct an immersion with their local installation Violence Prevention Integrator focused on suicide prevention. The immersions will equip leaders with the tools and resources to foster cohesive, connected unit cultures and more resilient Airmen.“Leaders play a critical role in suicide prevention and response, and we’re taking extra steps to ensure they understand their role and the resources available to support them,” said Schaefer. “Losing a member to suicide always has a significant impact on a unit. We need to surround our leaders with the support structures to help prevent suicide and provide all the required resources, if an unfortunate event occurs.” The immersions will provide an opportunity for leaders to learn of the various installation support agencies and will include an overview of current messaging, prevention and intervention resources, annual by-law training requirements and more. Leaders will work directly with their installation VPI and local providers, establishing key relationships that will carry through their leadership service term.
Nearly 900 members from across the worldwide AFIMSC enterprise took the survey for a 26-percent response rate.Aggregate data from the report confirms a significant organizational commitment to diversity and inclusion with no major areas of concern. However, results indicate a disparity in awareness of D&I initiatives and positive climate perceptions among differing supervisory levels, with those at lower ranks and grades viewing command efforts less favorably.
Threatened fish at Beale Air Force Base, California, are reaping the benefits of a partnership between the Air Force and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Specialists from Beale, the Air Force Civil Engineer Center and the USFWS recently completed a dam removal and creek restoration project there, making it easier for fish, including the Chinook salmon and federally threatened Central Valley steelhead, to travel upstream and spawn. The Army originally built Beale Lake Dam in 1943 as a recreational spot for Soldiers. In the 1980s, the Air Force realized the dam was impacting fish travel and constructed a concrete fish ladder to try to address the issue. In 2015, the Air Force recognized the fish ladder was undersized and outdated.“The need to address the obsolete dam and fish ladder and improve habitat conditions for sensitive fish species had long been identified as a significant goal in the installation Integrated Natural Resources Management Plan,” said Kevin Porteck, AFCEC natural resources subject matter expert.  “Fortunately, in 2018, we were able to get the funding and the partnerships in place to address the issue.”AFCEC reached out to USFWS for its expertise. Under the Sikes Act of 1960, the two agencies regularly work together to manage, conserve and rehabilitate natural resources at Department of the Air Force installations. “AFCEC initiated a more detailed study of this issue through a habitat assessment by USFWS fisheries biologists,” said Kirsten Christopherson, natural resources specialist for AFCEC’s western regional environmental support office, who led the dam removal project. “The study identified that there were two major barriers impeding fish passage – Beale Lake Dam and a low flow crossing that is 7.35 miles downstream from Beale AFB on private land.”Around the same time, a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers study found Beale Lake Dam to be in poor condition.“Base engineers determined that the long-term maintenance of the dam, and the potential liability for the dam’s failure, presented an unacceptable risk,” Christopherson said.Air Force engineers and natural resource managers determined it would be cheaper to remove the dam than repair it, and engaged the support of USFWS fisheries biologists.“We removed something that wasn’t really functional for us anymore and was actually going to be a hazard,” said Tamara Gallentine, natural and cultural resources program manager at Beale. USFWS engineers designed a new creek channel, using an area upstream of the dam as a model, and work began with draining the lake for a short period of time during the summer of 2019 in order to further study the channel. In addition to the dam removal, which was completed in October 2020, the team also implemented other aspects to assist fish migration, such as building a “rocky ramp” to help fish pass over a small natural waterfall upstream of the dam. “The goal was to raise the water surface elevations and create a jumping pool so fish are able to navigate over the waterfall,” said Jessica Pica, a USFWS fish passage engineer who worked on the project. “We played with different slopes and dimensions to get (a ramp) that worked.”They also planted native vegetation, including large trees, to prevent erosion and provide shade to help maintain fish-friendly water temperatures.“The removal of the dam, and associated outdated and ineffective fish ladder, helps to return natural processes to Dry Creek,” said Paul Cadrett, USFWS project manager for the project.  “These natural processes benefit native fish by returning the ecosystem to a more natural state.  This has multiple benefits to native plants and insects, as well as native fish and terrestrial animals.  These ecosystem changes are exciting to see and watch as they continue to evolve.”The project was unique and particularly challenging compared to previous environmental projects on base, requiring construction crews with heavy equipment in a riparian area full of wildlife and coordination with multiple on- and off-base partners. The California Department of Fish and Wildlife, the Center for Environmental Management of Military Lands and numerous volunteers provided extensive support in such areas as fish and wildlife relocation, project monitoring and revegetation planning.“Working with multiple agencies certainly had its challenges, but the overall benefits were realized through technical expertise, expedited environmental permitting, and public confidence in the project,” Christopherson said. “I had not been involved in a project before with so much support, excitement, and interest from Air Force leadership, engineering, and environmental, but also from regulatory agencies and local landowners.”The Covid-19 pandemic also brought a unique set of challenges.“This forced everyone involved in the project to take extraordinary steps to shift from in-person meetings to the virtual meetings that have taken over all of our work and personal lives,” Cadrett said. “Service staff that designed the project are from across the United States from Alaska to Massachusetts. Everyone involved in the project had to shift and shuffle plans to cover the onsite observations in order to successfully complete the project.”While the project successfully restored access to six miles of historic salmonid spawning habitat, Christopherson said they would like to see the remaining barrier downstream from the base removed as well. “The USFWS is continuing to pursue funding to implement the off-base work,” she said. “Once the off-base portions have been completed, over 13 miles of fish habitat will have been restored.”While the Air Force and USFWS played lead roles, several other organizations provided support and assistance as well, including the California Department of Fish and Wildlife, the National Marine Fisheries Service, the Central Valley Regional Water Quality Control Board and USACE. “The Air Force had a need to repair a failing dam at a high cost,” Christopherson said. “With less money, we were able to remove the dam and restore the site for the benefit of rare fish species. The project was a win-win for the Air Force, the taxpayer, and the environment.”
- With the right contacts, tools and resources, a person can do just about anything.At the Air Force Materiel Command, a new initiative aims to better prepare leaders to develop more resilient Airmen and support suicide prevention activities across the mission.In a memo issued this month, Lt. Gen. Carl Schaefer, AFMC deputy commander, established a 30-day window for a new leaders to conduct an immersion with their local installation Violence Prevention Integrator focused on suicide prevention. The immersions will equip leaders with the tools and resources to foster cohesive, connected unit cultures and more resilient Airmen.
 First, it was Category 5 Hurricane Michael with sustained winds of 155 miles per hour and pure destruction as the eye passed directly over Tyndall Air Force Base, Florida, Oct. 10, 2018. A few months later and nearly 1,000 miles away, it was the icy waters of the Missouri and Platte rivers that engulfed nearly one third of Offutt AFB, Nebraska, following record rainfall and melting snow breaching nearby levees. In less than six months, natural disasters shut down two major bases and bottlenecked critical training and mission operations for months. Initially, the Air Force Civil Engineer Center Facility Engineering Directorate managed both of these recovery and rebuild projects through separate program management offices.  They are now aligned under a new program office, the Natural Disaster Recovery Division, focused on recovering bases like Tyndall and Offutt and rebuilding them with adaptive, resilient, right-sized and fiscally sustainable infrastructure that enhances combat power.“Installations are the foundation of Air Force readiness and lethality … they provide air power, training and they’re home to countless Airmen, Guardians and their families,” said Col. Travis Leighton, chief of the new division. 
 First, it was Category 5 Hurricane Michael with sustained winds of 155 miles per hour and pure destruction as the eye passed directly over Tyndall Air Force Base, Florida, Oct. 10, 2018. A few months later and nearly 1,000 miles away, it was the icy waters of the Missouri and Platte rivers that engulfed nearly one third of Offutt AFB, Nebraska, following record rainfall and melting snow breaching nearby levees. In less than six months, natural disasters shut down two major bases and bottlenecked critical training and mission operations for months. Initially, the Air Force Civil Engineer Center Facility Engineering Directorate managed both of these recovery and rebuild projects through separate program management offices.  They are now aligned under a new program office, the Natural Disaster Recovery Division, focused on recovering bases like Tyndall and Offutt and rebuilding them with adaptive, resilient, right-sized and fiscally sustainable infrastructure that enhances combat power.“Installations are the foundation of Air Force readiness and lethality … they provide air power, training and they’re home to countless Airmen, Guardians and their families,” said Col. Travis Leighton, chief of the new division. 
100 CPTS owner adding item only for Milpay Category
100 CPTS owner adding item only for Travelpay Category
100 CPTS owner adding item only for Civpay Category
100 CPTS owner adding item only for Budget Category
100 CPTS owner adding item only for Accounting category Category
100 CPTS owner adding item only for All  Categories 
USAFE MAJCOM Owner adding item for Milpay Category
USAFE MAJCOM Owner adding item for Travelpay Category
USAFE MAJCOM Owner adding item for Civilianpay Category
USAFE MAJCOM Owner adding item for Budget Category
USAFE MAJCOM Owner adding item for Accounting Category
USAFE MAJCOM Owner adding item for All Category
AFIMSC Owner added event for Milpay Category
AFIMSC Owner added event for Travel pay Category
AFIMSC Owner added event for Civilian pay Category
AFIMSC Owner added event for Budget  Category
AFIMSC Owner added event for Accounting  Category
AFIMSC Owner added event for All  Categories
“He funded an innovative strategic plan in Florida to achieve military readiness through conservation partnerships,” Basili said.  “This plan created a landscape-scale approach to achieving conservation objectives for the Air Force that is becoming a national model for partnerships between DoD branches and state and federal partners.  It was also a foundational component of an application to designate the Northwest Florida Sentinel Landscape.”Porteck’s efforts to conserve and enhance populations of threatened and endangered species on and adjacent to Air Force installations was cited as yet another reason. He led efforts to enhance and facilitate the use of prescribed fire as a management tool, and championed numerous innovative conservation projects for species such as the Florida scrub-jay, Florida grasshopper sparrow, red-cockaded woodpecker, reticulated flatwoods salamander, indigo snake, gopher tortoise, several sub species of beach mice, and many other plants and animals. “I am so pleased to see Kevin recognized by the USFWS for his extensive accomplishments,” said Jeffrey Domm, AFCEC Environmental Management director. “His unflagging efforts and our USFWS partnership will continue to have a positive and lasting impact on our warfighters, communities and environment.”
“He funded an innovative strategic plan in Florida to achieve military readiness through conservation partnerships,” Basili said.  “This plan created a landscape-scale approach to achieving conservation objectives for the Air Force that is becoming a national model for partnerships between DoD branches and state and federal partners.  It was also a foundational component of an application to designate the Northwest Florida Sentinel Landscape.”Porteck’s efforts to conserve and enhance populations of threatened and endangered species on and adjacent to Air Force installations was cited as yet another reason. He led efforts to enhance and facilitate the use of prescribed fire as a management tool, and championed numerous innovative conservation projects for species such as the Florida scrub-jay, Florida grasshopper sparrow, red-cockaded woodpecker, reticulated flatwoods salamander, indigo snake, gopher tortoise, several sub species of beach mice, and many other plants and animals. “I am so pleased to see Kevin recognized by the USFWS for his extensive accomplishments,” said Jeffrey Domm, AFCEC Environmental Management director. “His unflagging efforts and our USFWS partnership will continue to have a positive and lasting impact on our warfighters, communities and environment.”
“He funded an innovative strategic plan in Florida to achieve military readiness through conservation partnerships,” Basili said.  “This plan created a landscape-scale approach to achieving conservation objectives for the Air Force that is becoming a national model for partnerships between DoD branches and state and federal partners.  It was also a foundational component of an application to designate the Northwest Florida Sentinel Landscape.”Porteck’s efforts to conserve and enhance populations of threatened and endangered species on and adjacent to Air Force installations was cited as yet another reason. He led efforts to enhance and facilitate the use of prescribed fire as a management tool, and championed numerous innovative conservation projects for species such as the Florida scrub-jay, Florida grasshopper sparrow, red-cockaded woodpecker, reticulated flatwoods salamander, indigo snake, gopher tortoise, several sub species of beach mice, and many other plants and animals. “I am so pleased to see Kevin recognized by the USFWS for his extensive accomplishments,” said Jeffrey Domm, AFCEC Environmental Management director. “His unflagging efforts and our USFWS partnership will continue to have a positive and lasting impact on our warfighters, communities and environment.”
“He funded an innovative strategic plan in Florida to achieve military readiness through conservation partnerships,” Basili said.  “This plan created a landscape-scale approach to achieving conservation objectives for the Air Force that is becoming a national model for partnerships between DoD branches and state and federal partners.  It was also a foundational component of an application to designate the Northwest Florida Sentinel Landscape.”Porteck’s efforts to conserve and enhance populations of threatened and endangered species on and adjacent to Air Force installations was cited as yet another reason. He led efforts to enhance and facilitate the use of prescribed fire as a management tool, and championed numerous innovative conservation projects for species such as the Florida scrub-jay, Florida grasshopper sparrow, red-cockaded woodpecker, reticulated flatwoods salamander, indigo snake, gopher tortoise, several sub species of beach mice, and many other plants and animals. “I am so pleased to see Kevin recognized by the USFWS for his extensive accomplishments,” said Jeffrey Domm, AFCEC Environmental Management director. “His unflagging efforts and our USFWS partnership will continue to have a positive and lasting impact on our warfighters, communities and environment.”
“He funded an innovative strategic plan in Florida to achieve military readiness through conservation partnerships,” Basili said.  “This plan created a landscape-scale approach to achieving conservation objectives for the Air Force that is becoming a national model for partnerships between DoD branches and state and federal partners.  It was also a foundational component of an application to designate the Northwest Florida Sentinel Landscape.”Porteck’s efforts to conserve and enhance populations of threatened and endangered species on and adjacent to Air Force installations was cited as yet another reason. He led efforts to enhance and facilitate the use of prescribed fire as a management tool, and championed numerous innovative conservation projects for species such as the Florida scrub-jay, Florida grasshopper sparrow, red-cockaded woodpecker, reticulated flatwoods salamander, indigo snake, gopher tortoise, several sub species of beach mice, and many other plants and animals. “I am so pleased to see Kevin recognized by the USFWS for his extensive accomplishments,” said Jeffrey Domm, AFCEC Environmental Management director. “His unflagging efforts and our USFWS partnership will continue to have a positive and lasting impact on our warfighters, communities and environment.”
“He funded an innovative strategic plan in Florida to achieve military readiness through conservation partnerships,” Basili said.  “This plan created a landscape-scale approach to achieving conservation objectives for the Air Force that is becoming a national model for partnerships between DoD branches and state and federal partners.  It was also a foundational component of an application to designate the Northwest Florida Sentinel Landscape.”Porteck’s efforts to conserve and enhance populations of threatened and endangered species on and adjacent to Air Force installations was cited as yet another reason. He led efforts to enhance and facilitate the use of prescribed fire as a management tool, and championed numerous innovative conservation projects for species such as the Florida scrub-jay, Florida grasshopper sparrow, red-cockaded woodpecker, reticulated flatwoods salamander, indigo snake, gopher tortoise, several sub species of beach mice, and many other plants and animals. “I am so pleased to see Kevin recognized by the USFWS for his extensive accomplishments,” said Jeffrey Domm, AFCEC Environmental Management director. “His unflagging efforts and our USFWS partnership will continue to have a positive and lasting impact on our warfighters, communities and environment.”
“He funded an innovative strategic plan in Florida to achieve military readiness through conservation partnerships,” Basili said.  “This plan created a landscape-scale approach to achieving conservation objectives for the Air Force that is becoming a national model for partnerships between DoD branches and state and federal partners.  It was also a foundational component of an application to designate the Northwest Florida Sentinel Landscape.”Porteck’s efforts to conserve and enhance populations of threatened and endangered species on and adjacent to Air Force installations was cited as yet another reason. He led efforts to enhance and facilitate the use of prescribed fire as a management tool, and championed numerous innovative conservation projects for species such as the Florida scrub-jay, Florida grasshopper sparrow, red-cockaded woodpecker, reticulated flatwoods salamander, indigo snake, gopher tortoise, several sub species of beach mice, and many other plants and animals. “I am so pleased to see Kevin recognized by the USFWS for his extensive accomplishments,” said Jeffrey Domm, AFCEC Environmental Management director. “His unflagging efforts and our USFWS partnership will continue to have a positive and lasting impact on our warfighters, communities and environment.”1
The waist measurement will no longer be required as part of the physical fitness test but a separate assessment of body composition, as required by DoD Instruction 1308.3, will continue starting in October. Testing for body composition may continue to use some form of waist measurement and may be administered during PT testing to reduce scheduling and administrative burdens, but body composition will not be a component of the PT test itself. Further details on the body composition program will be released at a later date.
The toolbox also contains the AFMC Leaders Post-Suicide Checklist which provides guidance for leaders following a suicide event. As a supplement to local policy, it incorporates “lessons learned” from others who have experienced suicide deaths in their own units.“Postvention efforts are intended to provide everyone who is exposed to a loss by suicide with immediate and long-term support. These efforts are vital to overcoming the loss and include providing individual and collective opportunities for healthy grieving,” said Owens. “The checklist helps leaders as they actively work with the members of their teams to respond to the event and overcome challenges as they begin the process of recovery.”The recent changes are part of a continued focus on driving greater resiliency in AFMC Airmen and to help reduce instances of suicide across the service.
User in Travel milpay and civpay category groups and added item for Milpay category
User is in Milpay and civpay and added an item
Milpay category owner added an item103
User is in Civpay and Milpay category and added item for civpay
The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is presenting Kevin Porteck, Air Force Civil Engineer Center natural resources subject matter expert, with a Regional Director’s Conservation Award next month for his conservation work and partnership efforts with the USFWS.Each year, the USFWS recognizes individuals who make significant contributions to their conservation mission.  This year, the South Atlantic-Gulf and Mississippi Basin regions chose Porteck for recognition.“(The award is) for being an outstanding conservation partner resulting in on- and off-installation species recovery efforts,” said Leopoldo Miranda-Castro, USFWS regional director. “Conservation partner awards acknowledge significant contribution and willingness to work with the service toward the conservation of natural resources in t
The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is presenting Kevin Porteck, Air 
Force Civil Engineer Center natural resources subject matter expert, 
with a Regional Director’s Conservation Award next month for his 
conservation work and partnership efforts with the USFWS.

Each year, the USFWS recognizes individuals who make significant 
contributions to their conservation mission.  This year, the South 
Atlantic-Gulf and Mississippi Basin regions chose Porteck for 
recognition.

“(The award is) for being an outstanding conservation partner resulting 
in on- and off-installation species recovery efforts,” said Leopoldo 
Miranda-Castro, USFWS regional director. “Conservation partner awards 
acknowledge significant contribution and willingness to work with the 
service toward the conservation of natural resources in t
SAF FMF Owner is in AFIMSC Owner group and added item for Civilian pay Category
SAF FMF Owner is in AFIMSC Owner group and added item for Accounting Category
SAF FMF Owner is in AFIMSC Owner group and added item for Budget Category
SAF FMF Owner is in AFIMSC Owner group and added item for ALL CategoryThe U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is presenting Kevin Porteck, Air Force Civil Engineer Center natural resources subject matter expert, with a Regional Director’s Conservation Award next month for his conservation work and partnership efforts with the USFWS.Each year, the USFWS recognizes individuals who make significant contributions to their conservation mission.  This year, the South Atlantic-Gulf and Mississippi Basin regions chose Porteck for recognition.“(The award is) for being an outstanding conservation partner resulting in on- and off-installation species recovery efforts,” said Leopoldo Miranda-Castro, USFWS regional director. “Conservation partner awards acknowledge significant contribution and willingness to work with the service toward the conservation of natural resources in t
add doc
test
test
test
test100 CPTS Owner 16062021
The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is presenting Kevin Porteck, Air Force Civil Engineer Center natural resources subject matter expert, with a Regional Director’s Conservation Award next month for his conservation work and partnership efforts with the USFWS.
The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is presenting Kevin Porteck, Air Force Civil Engineer Center natural resources subject matter expert, with a Regional Director’s Conservation Award next month for his conservation work and partnership efforts with the USFWS.Each year, the USFWS recognizes individuals who make significant contributions to their conservation mission.  This year, the South Atlantic-Gulf and Mississippi Basin regions chose Porteck for recognition.“(The award is) for being an outstanding conservation partner resulting in on- and off-installation species recovery efforts,” said Leopoldo Miranda-Castro, USFWS regional director. “Conservation partner awards acknowledge significant contribution and willingness to work with the service toward the conservation of natural resources in t
The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is presenting Kevin Porteck, Air Force Civil Engineer Center natural resources subject matter expert, with a Regional Director’s Conservation Award next month for his conservation work and partnership efforts with the USFWS.Each year, the USFWS recognizes individuals who make significant contributions to their conservation mission.  This year, the South Atlantic-Gulf and Mississippi Basin regions chose Porteck for recognition.“(The award is) for being an outstanding conservation partner resulting in on- and off-installation species recovery efforts,” said Leopoldo Miranda-Castro, USFWS regional director. “Conservation partner awards acknowledge significant contribution and willingness to work with the service toward the conservation of natural resources in t
“I am so pleased to see Kevin recognized by the USFWS for his extensive accomplishments,” said Jeffrey Domm, AFCEC Environmental Management director. “His unflagging efforts and our USFWS partnership will continue to have a positive and lasting impact on our warfighters, communities and environment.”
(a) Agencies shall identify all executive fleet vehicles and determine if any arelarger than a midsize sedan (including Sport Utility Vehicles (SUVs) that are larger thanintermediate) or are not AFV. Executive fleet vehicles are vehicles used primarily totransport Senior Executives (Heads of Agencies, Senior Executive Service (SES)employees, and General Officers).(b) Executive fleet vehicles that are larger than midsize sedans or are not AFVsmust be disclosed on the website of the agency operating the vehicles within 180 daysof the date of the memorandum (on or before November 17, 2011). The website mustbe publicly accessible, in a location that may be found using the search term "executivefleet vehicles". The data posted should include each vehicle's make, model, year ofmanufacture, fuel type, and the office to which the vehicle is assigned.
Primary duty responsibilities: I provide on-site AFCEC representation overseeing the $180 million repair of the primary runway at Little Rock AFB. My responsibilities include coordinating responses for contractor requests for information, technical review of submittals and direct collaboration with Title II services for inspection and supervision of construction operations. I strive to foster good communication within the project team and be proactive in addressing any problems early. My days are bookended by meetings with quality assurance inspectors in the morning and the quality control group in the evening to track and document daily contractor field activities to key stakeholders.
After a year-long hiatus due to COVID-19, the U.S. Air Force Academy Cadet Summer Program recently returned to the Air Force Civil Engineer Center’s Readiness Laboratory here. How do I start/stop my Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) contribution?Q and A Owner       COVID-19, the U.S. Air Force Academy Cadet Summer Program recently returned to the Air Force Civil Engineer Center’s Readiness Laboratory here. How do I start/stop my Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) contribution?After a year-long hiatus due to COVID-19, the U.S. Air Force Academy Cadet Summer Program recently returned to the Air Force Civil Engineer Center’s Readiness Laboratory here. After a year-long hiatus due to COVID-19, the U.S. Air Force Academy Cadet Summer Program recently returned to the Air Force Civil Engineer Center’s Readiness Laboratory here. Q and A Owner       COVID-19, the U.S. Air Force Academy Cadet Summer Program recently returned to the Air Force Civil Engineer Center’s Readiness Laboratory here. How do I start/stop my Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) contribution?
For PDS, there will benew XML data tags for each of the SFIS data elements found in this SLOA. Within 30 days subsequent to the signing of this policy memo, the OUSD(C) willrecommend SLOA requirements to OUSD(AT&L) to update Block 14 on DD Form 448,Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request. Product Service Code (PSC), a planned BEA 10.0 SFIS addition, supports OMBrequirements for agencies to submit efficiency data via PSC. Document Numbers e.g., PO, PO/Contract Numbers are header level information; the SLOAis line-item level information. There is not a need to repeat the same documentnumber/contract number for each line item. Those types of data elements will be included inthe larger standard transaction set. Recommended ERP configuration guidance will be incorporated in to the SAP and OracleSFIS Configuration Guides, the development of transitions plans will be part of theInvestment Review Board (IRB) process, and it will be discussed and validated as part of theSFIS Validation process. The Defense Departmental Reporting System (DDRS) only receives Trial Balance data, notthe SLOA. Until specific business rules are identified for the data elements in italics, targeted to be inthe BEA 10.0, systems will not be required to re-configure their system to include thoseelements. The SFIS Governance Board will establish specific business rules to address thepurpose and details for how systems should capture these elements. As identified on the SFIS checklist, the elements required for this SLOA only include thoserequired based on each individual system function(s). Thus, the requirement to provide thestated SLOA elements during outbound/inbound data exchange is only applicable to thoseelements required given a system’s function.
70 ISR/FM Civpay Category Owner
70 ISR/FM CPTS Owner adding
70 ISR/FM CPTS Owner adding
70 ISR/FM CPTS Owner adding
70 ISR/FM CPTS Owner adding
70 ISR/FM CPTS Owner adding
70 ISR/FM CPTS Owner adding
70 ISR/FM CPTS Owner adding
70 ISR/FM CPTS Owner adding
70 ISR/FM CPTS Owner adding
ACC Mojcom Owner adding
Accounting standards require that an entity eliminate intraentity activity and balances from consolidated financial statements in order to prevent overstatement for business with itself. However, the Air Force cannot accurately identify intragovernmental transactions by customer because Air Force’s systems do not track buyer and seller data at the transaction level. Generally, seller entities within the DoD provide summary seller-side balances for revenue, accounts receivable, and unearned revenue to the buyer-side internal DoD accounting offices. In most cases, the buyer-side records are adjusted to agree with DoD seller-side balances and are then eliminated. The DoD is implementing replacement systems and a standard financial information structure that will incorporate the necessary elements that will enable DoD to correctly report, reconcile, and eliminate intragovernmental balances.The U.S. Treasury’s Federal Intragovernmental Transactions Accounting Policy Guide and Treasury Financial Manual Part 2 – Chapter 4700, Agency Reporting Requirements for the Financial Report of the United States Government, provide guidance for reporting and reconciling intragovernmental balances. While Air Force is unable to fully reconcile intragovernmental transactions with all federal agencies, Air Force is able to reconcile balances pertaining to investments in federal securities, borrowings from the U.S. Treasury and the Federal Financing Bank, Federal Employees’ Compensation Act transactions with the Department of Labor, and benefit program transactions with the Office of Personnel Management.The DoD’s proportionate share of public debt and related expenses of the Federal Government is not included. The Federal Government does not apportion debt and its related costs to federal agencies. The DoD’s financial statements do not report any public debt, interest, or source of public financing, whether from issuance of debt or tax revenues.Generally, financing for the construction of DoD facilities is obtained through appropriations. To the extent this financing ultimately may have been obtained through the issuance of public debt, interest costs have not been capitalized since the U.S. Treasury does not allocate such costs to DoD.
The Air Force’s monetary resources are maintained in U.S. Treasury accounts. The disbursing offices of Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS), the Military Departments, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE), and the Department of State’s financial service centers process the majority of the Air Force’s cash collections, disbursements, and adjustments worldwide. Each disbursing station prepares monthly reports to the U.S. Treasury on checks issued, electronic fund transfers, interagency transfers, and deposits.In addition, DFAS sites and USACE Finance Center submit reports to the U.S. Treasury by appropriation on interagency transfers, collections received, and disbursements issued. The U.S. Treasury records these transactions to the applicable Fund Balance with Treasury (FBWT) account. On a monthly basis, Air Force’s FBWT is adjusted to agree with the U.S. Treasury accounts.
The Fiscal Year 2004 Financial Statements likewise reflects this evolution and efficiency. You will notice it contains a more concise Management Discussion and Analysis  section that more effectively summarizes the great achievements of the Air Force over the past year. It also fulfills the requirements of the Chief Financial Officer Act,  documents the expenditures devoted to our General Fund and Working Capital Fund (addressed in the accounting statements) and reviews selected performance measures established as part of the Government Performance and Results Act.America can be proud of the good stewardship of our resources provided by Air Force financial management professionals. They are indeed supporting our nation by “financing the fight” with integrity, selfless service, and excellence.
Reference 3.a. establishes a DOD SLOA and directs updates to the SFIS. Thismemorandum also directs efforts to improve financial information, improve interoperability amongbusiness systems, provide better end-to-end funds traceability and linkage between budget andexpenditures, comply with new Treasury (Government-Wide Accounting (GWA)) requirements, andhelp achieve audit readiness through business process reengineering (BPR). The targetimplementation date for SLOA is September 30, 2014 to support financial audit readiness. InitialComponent level plans, which are outside the scope of this ADC, were due by January 14, 2013.Process voids requiring BPR were to be highlighted in Component level plans. During a November 7,2012 joint Supply and Finance PRC meeting (Reference 3.f. ), a draft version of this DLMS changewas reviewed, including discussion of some process voids summarized below under additionalfunctional requirements.
this is a test. BAH. COLA. FSA
test
The Air Force Civil Engineer Center, headquartered at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland, Texas, provides responsive, flexible civil engineering expertise and support to Air Force installations and the warfighter. The AFCEC mantra is “brilliant at the basics,” and the AFCEC team delivers capabilities across the wide civil engineering spectrum to enable ready engineers and maintain the facilities and platforms that are the backbone of the Air Force mission. 
The Air Force Civil Engineer Center, headquartered at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland, Texas, provides responsive, flexible civil engineering expertise and support to Air Force installations and the warfighter. The AFCEC mantra is “brilliant at the basics,” and the AFCEC team delivers capabilities across the wide civil engineering spectrum to enable ready engineers and maintain the facilities and platforms that are the backbone of the Air Force mission. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Air_Force#:~:text=heritage%20in%20Wikipedia!-,United%20States%20Air%20Force,-From%20Wikipedia%2C%20the
According to the National Security Act of 1947 (61 Stat. 502), which created the USAF:In general, the United States Air Force shall include aviation forces both combat and service not otherwise assigned. It shall be organized, trained, and equipped primarily for prompt and sustained offensive and defensive air operations. The Air Force shall be responsible for the preparation of the air forces necessary for the effective prosecution of war except as otherwise assigned and, in accordance with integrated joint mobilization plans, for the expansion of the peacetime components of the Air Force to meet the needs of war.
Global integrated intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) is the synchronization and integration of the planning and operation of sensors, assets, and processing, exploitation, dissemination systems across the globe to conduct current and future operations.[21]An Air Force RQ-4 strategic reconnaissance aircraftPlanning and directing is "the determination of intelligence requirements, development of appropriate intelligence architecture, preparation of a collection plan, and issuance of orders and requests to information collection agencies" (JP 2-01, Joint and National Intelligence Support to Military Operations). These activities enable the synchronization and integration of collection, processing, exploitation, analysis, and dissemination activities/resources to meet information requirements of national and military decision-makers.[2
The Department of the Air Force is one of three military departments within the Department of Defense, and is managed by the civilian Secretary of the Air Force, under the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of Defense. The senior officials in the Office of the Secretary are the Under Secretary of the Air Force, four Assistant Secretaries of the Air Force and the General Counsel, all of whom are appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate. The senior uniformed leadership in the Air Staff is made up of the Chief of Staff of the Air Force and the Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force.
I-WEPTAC examines fundamental installation and mission support (I&MS) challenges to identify deficiencies, shortfalls and developmental gaps that limit the Air Force's and Space Force’s ability to execute and operate efficiently. I-WEPTAC is charged with developing executable courses of action and recommending solutions while providing valuable information to senior leaders. Subsequently, these studies serve to enhance the agility and lethality of Air Force and Space Force combat support operations worldwide.
I-WEPTAC examines fundamental installation and mission support (I&MS) challenges to identify deficiencies, shortfalls and developmental gaps that limit the Air Force's and Space Force’s ability to execute and operate efficiently. I-WEPTAC is charged with developing executable courses of action and recommending solutions while providing valuable information to senior leaders. Subsequently, these studies serve to enhance the agility and lethality of Air Force and Space Force combat support operations worldwide.
The Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center’s annual Installation and Mission Support Weapons and Tactics Conference, known as I-WEPTAC, was established in early 2017 to drive innovation in the combat support arena.
AFICC plays an essential role in accomplishing the Air Force mission by providing non-organic capabilities to the Air Force and joint warfighter. It provides business advice and specialized contract support to Air Force major commands, contracting authority to operational contracting squadrons, and enterprise, regional, and local sourcing solutions to affect rate, process and demand, maximizing the use of Air Force installation spend. AFICC is also the Air Force lead for contingency contracting operations, ensuring contracting personnel are trained and equipped to deal with all contingencies - at war, in times of disaster, and at home.
AFICC plays an essential role in accomplishing the Air Force mission by providing non-organic capabilities to the Air Force and joint warfighter. It provides business advice and specialized contract support to Air Force major commands, contracting authority to operational contracting squadrons, and enterprise, regional, and local sourcing solutions to affect rate, process and demand, maximizing the use of Air Force installation spend. AFICC is also the Air Force lead for contingency contracting operations, ensuring contracting personnel are trained and equipped to deal with all contingencies - at war, in times of disaster, and at home.
The Comptroller Services Portal (CSP) is the Air Force’s 21st century solution for finance customer service. The CSP streamlines the customer experience and enables collaboration at the base level to elevate critical cases and ensure timely resolution.
The Air Force Civil Engineer Center, headquartered at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland, Texas, provides responsive, flexible civil engineering..
The Air Force Civil Engineer Center, headquartered at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland
The 66th Comptroller Squadron at Hanscom Air Force Base, Mass., support finance customers through the Air Force Comptroller Services Portal. Customers can submit, track, and review queries through the portal and will be notified every time a technician works their request. (U.S. Air Force graphic by Lauren Russell)
Knowledge graph by CPTS Owner Military pay
AFIMSC Owner Knowledge Owner
Comptroller Services Portal is an automated incident management application that allows customers to request and receive online assistance from their servicing comptroller squadron. CSP has integrated workflows which assist the customer in seeking help with travel pay, military pay and civilian pay. (U.S. Air Force courtesy graphic)Comptroller Services Portal is an automated incident management application that allows customers to request and receive online assistance from their servicing comptroller squadron. CSP has integrated workflows which assist the customer in seeking help with travel pay, military pay and civilian pay. (U.S. Air Force courtesy graphic)
Interfund detail billing records are grouped together by sellers according to the buyer’s fund code in the Summary Billing Record, and are transmitted together via the DLMS 810L Logistics Bill (or equivalent legacy transactions) to seller and buyer Central Accounts Offices (CAO). For bills that pass DLA Logistics Management Standards Office prescribed Defense Automatic Addressing System (DAAS) edits, the seller CAO is authorized to report summary level funds transfer for seller reimbursement and buyer disbursement to Treasury (currently at the end of the month). No detail bills are sent to Treasury. This is a self-balancing process. The buyer’s CAO is responsible for Interfund bill clearance, ensuring that buyer disbursements are correctly reported. For the buyer, the bill is both a bill and a notice of funds withdrawn (payment) from his account. The buyer must accept a billing and may seek adjustment from the seller if needed. While buyer CAOs may adjust the disbursement side of the seller reported Interfund transactions, neither buyers nor their CAOs can adjust, either directly or indirectly, the reimbursement side of the Interfund transactions reported by seller CAOs.
Interfund detail billing records are grouped together by sellers according to the buyer’s fund code in the Summary Billing Record, and are transmitted together via the DLMS 810L Logistics Bill (or equivalent legacy transactions) to seller and buyer Central Accounts Offices (CAO). For bills that pass DLA Logistics Management Standards Office prescribed Defense Automatic Addressing System (DAAS) edits, the seller CAO is authorized to report summary level funds transfer for seller reimbursement and buyer disbursement to Treasury (currently at the end of the month). No detail bills are sent to Treasury. This is a self-balancing process. The buyer’s CAO is responsible for Interfund bill clearance, ensuring that buyer disbursements are correctly reported. For the buyer, the bill is both a bill and a notice of funds withdrawn (payment) from his account. The buyer must accept a billing and may seek adjustment from the seller if needed. While buyer CAOs may adjust the disbursement side of the seller reported Interfund transactions, neither buyers nor their CAOs can adjust, either directly or indirectly, the reimbursement side of the Interfund transactions reported by seller CAOs.
Members who are unable to use leave due to military necessity may
accumulate a maximum of 75 days by the end of a fiscal year until 30 Sep 2015. After this
date, the limit will return to the previous 60 day limit of accrued leave. In the event service 
members are unable to use their excess accrued leave prior to 30 September due to mission
requirements, approval may be requested to carryover the excess leave days (Special Leave
Accrual). Direct questions regarding leave to the local Force Support Squadron, local Finance 
office, or AFPC Contact Center
Interfund detail billing records are grouped together by sellers according to the buyer’s fund code in the Summary Billing Record, and are transmitted together via the DLMS 810L Logistics Bill (or equivalent legacy transactions) to seller and buyer Central Accounts Offices (CAO). For bills that pass DLA Logistics Management Standards Office prescribed Defense Automatic Addressing System (DAAS) edits, the seller CAO is authorized to report summary level funds transfer for seller reimbursement and buyer disbursement to Treasury (currently at the end of the month). No detail bills are sent to Treasury. This is a self-balancing process. The buyer’s CAO is responsible for Interfund bill clearance, ensuring that buyer disbursements are correctly reported. For the buyer, the bill is both a bill and a notice of funds withdrawn (payment) from his account. The buyer must accept a billing and may seek adjustment from the seller if needed. While buyer CAOs may adjust the disbursement side of the seller reported Interfund transactions, neither buyers nor their CAOs can adjust, either directly or indirectly, the reimbursement side of the Interfund transactions reported by seller CAOs.
We employ some of the most advanced aircraft in the world to complete our missions and defend our country. Utilizing extraordinary skill and precision, Air Force Pilots push each aircraft’s limits with complete control. While successfully completing their missions is paramount, their role as leaders and character models, training and commanding crews, is just as important. These skilled professionals deploy around the world to wherever there’s a need as fighters, trainers, bombers, advisers and more
Reference 3.a. establishes a DOD SLOA and directs updates to the SFIS. Thismemorandum also directs efforts to improve financial information, improve ....
The Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center, headquartered at Joint Base San Antonio, Texas, is one of six centers aligned under Air Force Materiel Command for the United States Air Force
The 66th Comptroller Squadron at Hanscom Air Force Base, Mass., support finance customers through the Air Force Comptroller Services Portal. Customer..
The 66th Comptroller Squadron at Hanscom Air Force Base, Mass., support finance customers through the Air Force Comptroller Services Portal. Customer..
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.
Strategic basing decisions are multifaceted and relate to the stationing or basing of weapon systems, squadrons, capabilities and forces for both Air and Space Forces. AFIMSC is uniquely positioned to provide an objective enterprise-wide look to help Air Force decision-makers understand the value of various candidate locations. This goal seeks to optimize the entire process by leveraging authoritative data and AFIMSC expertise. 
Strategic basing decisions are multifaceted and relate to the stationing or basing of weapon systems, squadrons, capabilities and forces for both Air and Space Forces. AFIMSC is uniquely positioned to provide an objective enterprise-wide look to help Air Force decision-makers understand the value of various candidate locations. This goal seeks to optimize the entire process by leveraging authoritative data and AFIMSC expertise. 
Strategic basing decisions are multifaceted and relate to the stationing or basing of weapon systems, squadrons, capabilities and forces for both Air and Space Forces. AFIMSC is uniquely positioned to provide an objective enterprise-wide look to help Air Force decision-makers understand the value of various candidate locations. This goal seeks to optimize the entire process by leveraging authoritative data and AFIMSC expertise. 
Created in 1907 as a functional component of the United States (U.S.) Army, the U.S. Air Force (the “Air Force,” “we,” “us,” and “our”) is the youngest branch of the U.S. Armed Forces. The Department of the Air Force was then established 40 years later, becoming one of three military departments within the Department of Defense (DoD). The Air Force is a military service branch organized within the DoD.Our mission is to fly, fight, and win... in air, space, and cyberspace. To achieve that mission, the Air Force has a vision: The United States Air Force will be a trusted and reliable joint partner with our sister services known for integrity in all of our activities, including supporting the joint mission first and foremost. We will provide compelling air, space, and cyber capabilities for use by the combatant commanders. We will excel as stewards of all Air Force resources in service to the American people, while providing precise and reliable Global Vigilance, Reach and Power for the nation.As a steward of government resources, the Air Force prepares its Agency Financial Report each Fiscal Year (FY) to convey its financial position and performance results to taxpayers. It demonstrates our commitment to the Air Force’s mission, accountability, and stewardship over the resources entrusted to us by members of Congress, the President of the United States, and the public.
AFRC Accounting Category Knowledge graph
The Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center’s annual Installation and Mission Support Weapons and Tactics Conference, known as I-WEPTAC
The Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center’s annual Installation and Mission Support Weapons and Tactics Conference, known as I-WEPTAC, wa....
A “post-post” issue involves accepting and updating records after the event (or issue) has occurred. DLA and the Components use post-post processing in various contexts, including high priority shipments requested through the DLA call center and procedures in support of maintenance operations. For DLA, one form of the post-post process includes the Directed Material Release Order (MRO) which may be entered by authorized personnel to direct release of materiel from a Distribution Standard System (DSS) storage site without prior ICP processing of the requisition. The customer initiating the requirement has no systemic interface with the system preparing the transaction to provide SLOA data content. When this process is used, the first transaction available is the DLMS 511R for the DLA Directed MRO (Requisition) (equivalent to DLA legacy C0A/C01) or DLA Directed MRO (Referral Order) (equivalent to DLA legacy CQA/CQ1). In other scenarios, the issue transaction is the first available DLMS transaction
The Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center’s annual Installation and Mission Support Weapons and Tactics Conference, known as I-WEPTAC
A “post-post” issue involves accepting and updating records after the event (or issue) has occurred. DLA and the Components use post-post processing in various contexts, including high priority shipments requested through the DLA call center and procedures in support of maintenance operations. For DLA, one form of the post-post process includes the Directed Material Release Order (MRO) which may be entered by authorized personnel to direct release of materiel from a Distribution Standard System (DSS) storage site without prior ICP processing of the requisition. The customer initiating the requirement has no systemic interface with the system preparing the transaction to provide SLOA data content. When this process is used, the first transaction available is the DLMS 511R for the DLA Directed MRO (Requisition) (equivalent to DLA legacy C0A/C01) or DLA Directed MRO (Referral Order) (equivalent to DLA legacy CQA/CQ1). In other scenarios, the issue transaction is the first available DLMS transaction
Members who are unable to use leave due to military necessity may accumulate a maximum of 75 days by the end of a fiscal year until 30 Sep 2015. After this date, the limit will return to the previous 60 day limit of accrued leave. In the event service members are unable to use their excess accrued leave prior to 30 September due to mission requirements, approval may be requested to carryover the excess leave days (Special Leave Accrual). Direct questions regarding leave to the local Force Support Squadron.
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.
First tested in a lab environment at AFSFC, DVES proved to be “the innovative, no-cost solution we needed,” Goodman said. “Using existing capabilities of the Defense Biometric Identification System with DVES and the pre-enrollment web site significantly reduces the need for visitors to physically enter a brick-and-mortar facility. That can reduce manpower requirements at visitor control centers and get passes into the hands of the visitors more expediently and efficiently.”Beginning in October 2020, the Air National Guard’s Ellington Field, Texas, Joint Base San Antonio-Randolph, Texas, Nellis Air Force Base, Nevada, and Tyndall AFB, Florida, conducted 90-day field test to capture data from bases with significantly different visitor pass procedures.All locations rep
Category owner after build
CPTS owner after build
MAJCOM Owner after build 
Category owner after build 3
CPTS owner after build 3
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.
This goal creates tools and actionable plans to ensure the execution of mission-critical priorities for installation and mission support are aligned with higher headquarters and Air Force priorities. This will reduce vulnerabilities while enhancing our ability to protect, respond and recover from disruptions to operations and supporting infrastructure.
The Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center, headquartered at Joint Base San Antonio, Texas, is one of six centers aligned under Air Force Materiel Command for the United States Air Force
Under the contract, services and support are accessible year round via telephone, web and in person.The new Air Force contract transitions the DAF program from a task order under the Department of the Navy’s EAP contract to an Air Force-only contract, giving the Air Force total autonomy over its program, said Parks. Initial plans were for a Department of Defense-wide acquisition, explained Stephens, but the planned solution didn’t meet the DAF requirement and led to the 771st tasking. “We received the requirement in early May, which really was the last possible moment for us to get a contract of this magnitude completed in time to avoid a gap in service,” Stephens said. “JoAnn, the contracting officer who ran the source selection, and her team did a great job in ensuring everything got done on time, making sure this valuable service to DAF civilian employees and their families continued uninterrupted.”For more information on the Air Force’s EAP program, visit www.afpc.af.mil/eap and scroll to the bottom of the page or call 866-580-9078. 
The Fiscal Year (FY) 2011 Annual Financial Statement of the U.S. Air Force presents our financial position and results of operations. It allows Congress, senior defense leaders, and the public to assess our management performance while highlighting our efforts to continuously improve financial management processes and systems. Our goal is to obtain auditable financial statements in order to enable better management of taxpayer resources. We have made great strides towards this goal, including receiving our first unqualified opinion on a statement line item. In August 2011, KPMG, LLP, affirmed the internal controls over the Budget Authority – Appropriation line of the Statement of Budgetary Resources are designed to operate effectively to prevent, detect, and correct material misstatements. In October 2011, we received a clean opinion on Funds Balance with Treasury (FBWT) reconciliation from Price Waterhouse Cooper.We have asserted the existence and completeness of military equipment (e.g. aerospace vehicles and externally carried pods) and operating materials and supplies (e.g. cruise missiles, aerial drones, and targets). We expect to begin an independent examination for elements of our military equipment in the first quarter of FY 2012. However, the Air Force acknowledges it has material weaknesses in other areas and is aggressively working to implement our corrective action plans.Our ability to achieve audit readiness depends in part on our ability to field our Enterprise Resource Planning Systems (ERPs), such as the Defense Enterprise Accounting and Management System (DEAMS). In fielding our ERPs, we have benefited greatly from being slightly behind the other Services. We have closely observed their deployments and leveraged lessons learned. We are pushing forward, consistent with guidance from the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and others, to deploy these ERPs in smaller pieces in order to improve accountability.
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.
 Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 
 Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 
 Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 
 Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.
MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.
 KNOWLEDGE GRAPHAssigned Component 
Air National Guard
Servicing Comptroller 
136 CPTF
 ADD
ADD KNOWLEDGE GRAPH
Title *
KNOWLEDGE GRAPH Added by Category owner
Description 
test
Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team bu..
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradatAFIMSCion in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.
Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center > About Us > AFIMSC Strategy
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Str..
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Str..
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Str..
The Air Force Civil Engineer Center, headquartered at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland, Texas, provides responsive, flexible civil engineering expertise and support to Air Force installations and the warfighter. The AFCEC mantra is “brilliant at the basics,” and the AFCEC team delivers capabilities across the wide civil engineering spectrum to enable ready engineers and maintain the facilities and platforms that are the backbone of the Air Force mission
Led by a one-star general, AFCEC missions include facility investment planning, design and construction, operations support, real property management, energy support, environmental compliance and restoration, readiness and emergency management, and audit assertions, acquisition and program management. The AFCEC team conducts operations at more than 75 locations worldwide, overseeing the annual execution of $11.8 billion in contracts, managing $7 billion in housing and $5 billion in Enhanced Use Lease portfolios, and indirectly controlling $49 billion in contract vehicles
Strategic basing decisions are multifaceted and relate to the stationing or basing of weapon systems, squadrons, capabilities and forces for both Air and Space Forces. AFIMSC is uniquely positioned to provide an objective enterprise-wide look to help Air Force decision-makers understand the value of various candidate locations. This goal seeks to optimize the entire process by leveraging authoritative data and AFIMSC expertise
Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 
Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 
Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 
Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 
Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 
Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 
Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 
Global vigilance, reach, and power—This is the vision of America’s Air Force: A vision that continued to be realized during fiscal year 2004. The Air Force proved its ability to produce unprecedented success across the spectrum of conflict, around the world and in space. Continued dominance in this new era requires new thinking and new flexibility. Our Airmen responded with astonishing effectiveness in the Global War on Terrorism, during Operation IRAQI FREEDOM and Operation ENDURING FREEDOM.From a combat controller in the desert to a B-2 crew, our Airmen respond to the challenges of a new era using their skill and innovative technology to respond to insidious and asymmetric threats from terrorists and rogue states.
MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.
MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.
MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.
MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.
MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.
On the final day of the quarterfinal round, the panel evaluated 29 ideas nominated by U.S. Air Force major commands and U.S. Space Force field commands, plus four at-large “wildcard” submissions. The wildcards were selected by Guardians and Airmen who cast nearly 17,000 ballots in pairwise voting conducted over the last two weeks of October through the Guardians and Airmen Innovation Network platform.
AFICC, a primary subordinate unit of the Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center, manages and executes above-wing level operational acquisition solutions across the Air Force. Honored for their accomplishments from October 2020 to September 2021, award recipients are:
MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.
MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.
This Air Force Manpower Standard (AFMS) quantifies manpower required to accomplish tasks described in the process oriented description (POD) for varying levels of workload. The AFMS defines manpower to support all active duty Air Force installation level Comptroller Squadrons, with the exception of Joint Base San Antonio, TX and Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, OH. This AFMS does not address Group Resource Advisors. The Air Force 65-series publications contain United States Air Force (USAF) policy and procedural guidance for the installation-level Comptroller Squadron. This AFMS was developed in accordance with (IAW) policy and procedural guidance from AF/A1M, AFMAA, and the Air Force 38-series publications. Refer recommended changes and questions about this posting to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Recommendation for Change of Posted AFMS; OPR will route change form to Study Management/Quality Assurance Branch (AFMAA/MAOQ). Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this AFMS are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System Records Disposition Schedule. The use of name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this posting does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.
This variance provides man-hours for the FMA work center at Sheppard to review and assess the Comptroller Annex to the Technical Training Plan. FMA is required to review the Comptroller Annex and the cost rationale for course instructional design. FMA reviews proposed design or medium cost estimate compared to the existing design or medium cost estimate along with the comparison to determine the most cost-effective and efficient means to present information to the students.
Air Force Global Strike Command achieved full operational capability (FOC) on September 30, 2010, moving all Air Force nuclear-capable bombers and Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles (ICBMs) under one command. The Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center continues to pursue vital and deliberate sustainment of the nuclear enterprise through efforts such as the Air Force Comprehensive Assessment of Nuclear Sustainment process. Bomber force modernization continued in an effort to maintain a viable force beyond 2030. We have completed the transition to four B-52 operational squadrons with the addition of the 69th Bomb Squadron at Minot Air Force Base, North Dakota. ICBM also continued with investments in new test equipment and launch facility environment control systems.
MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.
The General Fund is the fund into which most receipts of the United States Government are deposited. Exceptions include receipts from specific sources required by law to be deposited into other designated funds and receipts from appropriations made by Congress to carry on the general and ordinary operations of the Government. The Notes to the Principal Statements provide more detail on the appropriations. The major appropriations in the Air Force General Fund and their uses are introduced below.Military Personnel (MILPERS) This appropriation provides funding for the care and feeding of our Airmen. It includes all direct military compensation for active duty, reserve, guard, and retired personnel including regular pay, allowances, and bonuses. Additionally, this appropriation funds all Permanent Change of Station (PCS) moves and supports a total force (active, reserve and guard) end strength of 508,000.
MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.
The Air Force Civil Engineer Center, headquartered at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland, Texas, provides responsive, flexible civil engineering expertise and support to Air Force installations and the warfighter. The AFCEC mantra is “brilliant at the basics,” and the AFCEC team delivers capabilities across the wide civil engineering spectrum to enable ready engineers and maintain the facilities and platforms that are the backbone of the Air Force mission.
The Air Force Civil Engineer Center, headquartered at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland, Texas, provides responsive, flexible civil engineering expertise and support to Air Force installations and the warfighter. The AFCEC mantra is “brilliant at the basics,” and the AFCEC team delivers capabilities across the wide civil engineering spectrum to enable ready engineers and maintain the facilities and platforms that are the backbone of the Air Force mission.
SAFFMB Owner
Led by a one-star general, AFCEC missions include facility investment planning, design and construction, operations support, real property management, energy support, environmental compliance and restoration, readiness and emergency management, and audit assertions, acquisition and program management. 
Led by a one-star general, AFCEC missions include facility investment planning, design and construction, operations support, real property management, energy support, environmental compliance and restoration, readiness and emergency management, and audit assertions, acquisition and program management. 
Interfund detail billing records are grouped together by sellers according to the buyer’s fund code in the Summary Billing Record,
Led by a one-star general, AFCEC missions include facility investment planning, design and construction, operations support, real property management, energy support, environmental compliance and restoration, readiness and emergency management, and audit assertions, acquisition and program management. The AFCEC team conducts operations at more than 75 locations worldwide, overseeing the annual execution of $11.8 billion in contracts, managing $7 billion in housing and $5 billion in Enhanced Use Lease portfolios, and indirectly controlling $49 billion in contract vehicles.
Led by a one-star general, AFCEC missions include facility investment planning, design and construction, operations support, real property management, energy support, environmental compliance and restoration, readiness and emergency management, and audit assertions, acquisition and program management. The AFCEC team conducts operations at more than 75 locations worldwide, overseeing the annual execution of $11.8 billion in contracts, managing $7 billion in housing and $5 billion in Enhanced Use Lease portfolios, and indirectly controlling $49 billion in contract vehicles.
The Air Force Civil Engineer Center, headquartered at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland, Texas, provides responsive, flexible civil engineering expertise and support to Air Force installations and the warfighter. The AFCEC mantra is “brilliant at the basics,” and the AFCEC team delivers capabilities across the wide civil engineering spectrum to enable ready engineers and maintain the facilities and platforms that are the backbone of the Air Force mission.
The Air Force Civil Engineer Center, headquartered at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland, Texas, provides responsive, flexible civil engineering expertise and support to Air Force installations and the warfighter. The AFCEC mantra is “brilliant at the basics,” and the AFCEC team delivers capabilities across the wide civil engineering spectrum to enable ready engineers and maintain the facilities and platforms that are the backbone of the Air Force mission.
AFSFC enables missions by providing SF functional implementation guidance for headquarters Air Force Security Forces policy and standards for force providers and operational commanders. AFSFC identifies and evaluates SF functional requirements and develops exercise plans, as appropriate. AFSFC represents the SF career field and informs the AFIMSC plans and programming process of SF functionally-prioritized requirements.
New knowledge graph
Team Beale’s 9th Force Support Squadron recently announced the expansion of food and beverage operations with the opening of the Dragon’s Lair Food, Life, You-FLY flight line kiosk.Beale partnered with multiple agencies across the Air Force and installation, including the Air Force Services Center's Food and Beverage Division, the Air Force Civil Engineer Center, the A4/7 Directorate, the 9th Civil Engineer Squadron and the 9th Contracting Squadron, to develop this new concept of bringing food closer to the flight line complex where a majority of hungry customers work. “Beale is excited to continue to exceed our customers’ expectations and increase food and beverage offerings across the installation”, said James Buck, 9th FSS deputy to the commander. “This has been a labor of love and huge support across the wing from CE, CONS, COMM and my entire FSS team and of course AFSVC and (Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center) back in San Antonio.”
Variations in itinerary will not be included when publishing orders after travel is completed, as the itinerary is finalized (T-1). Instead, include specific known dates and travel locations. Confirmatory travel orders must include the following statement: "Submit a travel voucher within 5 workdays after receipt of order (if travel is completed before orders are published) or after travel completion (if orders are published before travel is completed)." (T-1) An example of a composed confirmatory travel order body follows: “The verbal orders of the Commander, Headquarters AFMC, Wright-Patterson AFB OH, 1 Jun 17, directing SMSgt DAVID AKEMON, 123-45-6789, Headquarters AFMC/IGA, this station, to proceed on 1 Jun 17 from Wright-Patterson AFB OH to Edwards AFB CA on TDY for 5 days to perform tests in connection with aircraft stress testing and to return to Wright-Patterson AFB OH, are confirmed. Circumstances prevented written orders in advance. (SITE VISIT). Submit a travel voucher within 5 workdays after orders receipt.”
JOINT BASE SAN ANTONIO – LACKLAND, Texas – The application window for Airmen, Guardians, Reservists and Guardsmen who dream of Olympic competition is now open.Following on the heels of 2022 Winter Olympian Airman 1st Class Kelly Curtis, Department of the Air Force and Space Force athletes have 45 days to apply to begin their training with the hopes of competing in the 2024 Summer Olympics in Paris, France.Once accepted into the program, athletes train full-time for the chance to represent the DAF and the nation on the world stage.
JOINT BASE SAN ANTONIO – LACKLAND, Texas – The application window for Airmen, Guardians, Reservists and Guardsmen who dream of Olympic competition is now open.Following on the heels of 2022 Winter Olympian Airman 1st Class Kelly Curtis, Department of the Air Force and Space Force athletes have 45 days to apply to begin their training with the hopes of competing in the 2024 Summer Olympics in Paris, France.Once accepted into the program, athletes train full-time for the chance to represent the DAF and the nation on the world stage.
Functional: User is in multiple category and added item in Knowledge graph and Announcements section by selecting multiple categories. Added item is not displaying
Functional: User is in multiple category and added item in Knowledge graph and Announcements section by selecting multiple categories. Added item is not displaying
Team Beale’s 9th Force Support Squadron recently announced the expansion of food and beverage operations with the opening of the Dragon’s Lair Food, Life, You-FLY flight line kiosk.
Team Beale’s 9th Force Support Squadron recently announced the expansion of food and beverage operations with the opening of the Dragon’s Lair Food, Life, You-FLY flight line kiosk.
With CPTS Owner - RAF
Category owner HQ AFRC FMAH
KG - Milpay - Catory owner
“I am still learning.” At the age of 87 years old, Michelangelo, the famous Renaissance artist, painter and sculptor, uttered four simple words that offer insights to the importance of lifelong learning for both personal and professional life.A new Air Force Materiel Command Professional Library offers Airmen and civilians the opportunity to embrace lifelong professional development with books, podcasts, articles and more, inspired by leadership recommendations across diverse subject areas.
What started out as an Airman’s innovative idea to help his wingmen is now a reality at Robins Air Force Base, Georgia.The installation held a ribbon cutting ceremony March 30 for its recently installed Intelligent Lockers, giving the Airmen at the dormitories a centralized location to receive their packages after hours.
944 FM Category Owner
The 388th Fighter Wing’s Operations Support Squadron cyber Airmen are currently exploring high-speed communications options to support F-35A Lightning II Agile Combat Employment – operating from remote or austere locations.The flow of information is critical in any war-time environment, and space and cyber capabilities almost completely dominate that arena for modern militaries. Speed and reliability in communications are demanding to support the cyber needs of the F-35's associated systems.“We’re trying to get after what is Secretary [Frank] Kendall’s fifth operational imperative; ‘Defining optimized resilient basing, sustainment, and communications in a contested environment,’” said Lt. Col. Maxwell Cover, 388th OSS commander. “With the F-35, we are likely going to be using the ACE construct on any deployment, and we need resilient, redundant communications.”
As one of only 11 female two-star general officers currently serving on active duty in the Department of the Air Force, Maj. Gen. C. McCauley von Hoffman is no stranger to being the sole woman among her peers. In fact, during the early years of her nearly 33-year Air Force career, von Hoffman was often the only female officer in her unit and field. Women’s History Month is an opportunity to share stories of the past and celebrate the achievements of individuals who operated outside of societal norms and achieved success, setting the stage for future generations to follow. Von Hoffman is the director of Logistics, Civil Engineering, Force Protection and Nuclear Integrat
CPTS Owner AFRC
The DoD Components have the use of land, buildings, and other facilities that are located overseas and that have been obtained through various international treaties and agreements negotiated by the Department of State. The DoD purchases overseas capital assets with appropriated funds, but the host country retains title to land and improvements. Generally, treaty terms allow the DoD Components continued use of these properties until the treaties expire. These fixed assets are subject to loss in the event treaties are not renewed or other agreements are not reached that allow for the continued use by the DoD Components. Therefore, if the U.S. can no longer use foreign bases because treaties or other agreements have been terminated, losses will be recorded for the value of any non-retrievable capital assets after negotiations between the U.S. and the host country determine the amount to be paid the U.S. for such capital investments.
Category owner 502 CPTS Budget
It’s Month of the Military Child!  Since the 1980s, we have taken time out to recognize the huge sacrifices our military kids have and continue to make on behalf of our nation. This month, we applaud military kids – young and old – for not only the daily sacrifices made but also for the challenges they are able to overcome. Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center recognizes the importance military children have in the success of our mission. We asked AFIMSC military and civilians to share their experiences as military children. Meet Cathy Steinman with the Air Force Civil Engineer Center’s Reporting and Analysis Branch at Joint Base San Antonio, Texas. Cathy shares her experience as a military child when her father proudly served in the U.S. Army.  
It’s Month of the Military Child!  Since the 1980s, we have taken time out to recognize the huge sacrifices our military kids have and continue to make on behalf of our nation. This month, we applaud military kids – young and old – for not only the daily sacrifices made but also for the challenges they are able to overcome. Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center recognizes the importance military children have in the success of our mission. We asked AFIMSC military and civilians to share their experiences as military children. Meet Cathy Steinman with the Air Force Civil Engineer Center’s Reporting and Analysis Branch at Joint Base San Antonio, Texas. Cathy shares her experience as a military child when her father proudly served in the U.S. Army.  
Thanks to a collaboration between the Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center and headquarters Air Force Civil Engineering, Air Force explosive ordnance disposal teams now have a new program to build camaraderie, show their skills, learn from each other and get the chance to be named Air Force EOD Team of the Year.Through a program first envisioned by Chief Master Sgt. Vandiver Hood, EOD career field manager at the Air Force Civil Engineer Readiness Division, Pentagon, Washington, D.C., an Air Force-wide EOD competition is coming to fruition this year.
4/11/2022 - 001
4/11/2022 - 002
AFIMSC Owner 
AFIMSC Owner Accounting
AFIMSC Owner Travel pay
MAJCOM Owner - 4/13/2022 - 001 update
MAJCOM Owner - 4/13/2022 - 002
CPTS Owner - 4/13/2022 - 001
Category Owner 4/13/2022 - 001
Travel pay Ellsworth Owner knowledge graph
673 knowledge graph
SAFFMB Owner Knowledge graph
test
att
knowledge graph with attachment
Members who are unable to use leave due to military necessity may accumulate a maximum of 75 days by the end of a fiscal year until 30 Sep 2015. After this date, the limit will return to the previous 60 day limit of accrued leave. In the event service members are unable to use their excess accrued leave prior to 30 September due to mission requirements, approval may be requested to carryover the excess leave days (Special Leave Accrual). Direct questions regarding leave to the local Force Support Squadron, local Finance office, or AFPC Contact Center.Members who are unable to use leave due to military necessity may accumulate a maximum of 75 days by the end of a fiscal year until 30 Sep 2015. After this date, the limit will return to the previous 60 day limit of accrued leave. In the event service members are unable to use their excess accrued leave prior to 30 September due to mission requirements, approval may be requested to carryover the excess leave days (Special Leave Accrual). Direct questions regarding leave to the local Force Support Squadron, local Finance office, or AFPC Contact Center.
Members who are unable to use leave due to military necessity may accumulate a maximum of 75 days by the end of a fiscal year until 30 Sep 2015. After this date, the limit will return to the previous 60 day limit of accrued leave. In the event service members are unable to use their excess accrued leave prior to 30 September due to mission requirements, approval may be requested to carryover the excess leave days (Special Leave Accrual). Direct questions regarding leave to the local Force Support Squadron, local Finance office, or AFPC Contact Center.
While all pays are taxable, most allowances are tax-exempt. The primary allowances for most individuals are Basic Allowance for Subsistence (BAS), Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH) or Overseas Housing Allowance (OHA), and Family Separation Allowance (FSA). Tax savings can be significant as BAS and BAH averages over 30% of a member's total regular cash pay. In addition to being tax-exempt from Federal and State taxes, these allowances are also excluded from Social Security taxes
While all pays are taxable, most allowances are tax-exempt. The primary allowances for most individuals are Basic Allowance for Subsistence (BAS), Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH) or Overseas Housing Allowance (OHA), and Family Separation Allowance (FSA). Tax savings can be significant as BAS and BAH averages over 30% of a member's total regular cash pay. In addition to being tax-exempt from Federal and State taxes, these allowances are also excluded from Social Security taxes
Adding an item
testing 9 cpts KG
testing 99cpts KA
The 388th Fighter Wing’s Operations Support Squadron cyber Airmen are currently exploring high-speed communications options to support F-35A Lightning II Agile Combat Employment – operating from remote or austere locations.The flow of information is critical in any war-time environment, and space and cyber capabilities almost completely dominate that arena for modern militaries. Speed and reliability in communications are demanding to support the cyber needs of the F-35's associated systems.“We’re trying to get after what is Secretary [Frank] Kendall’s fifth operational imperative; ‘Defining optimized resilient basing, sustainment, and communications in a contested environment,’” said Lt. Col. Maxwell Cover, 388th OSS commander. “With the F-35, we are likely going to be using the ACE construct on any deployment, and we need resilient, redundant communications.”
New Assigned component related 
settings (sharepoint.com)In four round-robin games, the Air Force team allowed only one goal and that’s thanks to their defense and goalkeeper. The goalie for the Air Force club hails straight from the 17th Intelligence Squadron, Senior Airman Gavin Bryant. In the three games that he started – he gave up zero goals in regulation.
In four round-robin games, the Air Force team allowed only one goal and that’s thanks to their defense and goalkeeper. The goalie for the Air Force club hails straight from the 17th Intelligence Squadron, Senior Airman Gavin Bryant. In the three games that he started – he gave up zero goals in regulation.
In four round-robin games, the Air Force team allowed only one goal and that’s thanks to their defense and goalkeeper. The goalie for the Air Force club hails straight from the 17th Intelligence Squadron, Senior Airman Gavin Bryant. In the three games that he started – he gave up zero goals in regulation.
In four round-robin games, the Air Force team allowed only one goal and that’s thanks to their defense and goalkeeper. The goalie for the Air Force club hails straight from the 17th Intelligence Squadron, Senior Airman Gavin Bryant. In the three games that he started – he gave up zero goals in regulation.
In four round-robin games, the Air Force team allowed only one goal and that’s thanks to their defense and goalkeeper. The goalie for the Air Force club hails straight from the 17th Intelligence Squadron, Senior Airman Gavin Bryant. In the three games that he started – he gave up zero goals in regulation.
TYNDALL AIR FORCE BASE, Fla. (AFNS) --  Graphic detailing facilities delivered with recent contract awardThe Tyndall Air Force Base, Fla., Zone 1 contract awarded May 10, 2022, will deliver three aircraft maintenance unit hangars, a squadron maintenance complex, flight simulator facility, group headquarters, weapons load training hangar and more in support of the F-35A Lightning II mission. (U.S. Air Force graphic)PHOTO DETAILS / DOWNLOAD HI-RESThe U.S. Army Corps of Engineers awarded a $532 million construction contract May 10 to Hensel Phelps to deliver 11 projects that directly support flightline operations for the F-35A Lightning II slated to arrive at Tyndall Air Force Base, in September 2023.Accounting for contingencies and contract oversight, this represents a $604 million investment in the #BuildTyndallStrong effort and is the single largest military construction contract on record in the Air Force database, which dates to 2008.
The Department of Defense mandate requires maximum use of the DTS for all travel types capable of being processed in the DTS at this time. While this instruction is more specific to structure of manually prepared orders the entitlement/ allowance statements and requirements also apply to orders generated in the DTS and other order-writing systems. Effective statements are applied for traveler awareness, paying office proper payments/requirements, and clearly identifying intent and authority or approval for official government funded travel.
502 CPTS owner adding item for milpay
100 CPTS owner adding item for milpay category
99 CPTS Owner added Items 0620
9 CPTS Owner added content
502 CPTS Civilian pay
502 CPTS Military pay
502 CPTS Travel pay
502 CPTS Accounting
502 CPTS Budget
100 CPTS civilian pay
100 CPTS civilian pay
70 ISR FM Knowledge graph
70 ISR FM Knowledge graph
70 ISR FM Knowledge graph
137CPTF Military pay
137CPTF Civilian pay
137 CPTF Travel pay
HQAFRCFM Civilian pay
HQAFRCFM Travel pay
HQAFRCFM Accounting
301 FM Knowledge graph Military pay
301 FM Knowledge graph Civilian pay
301 FM Knowledge graph Travel pay
301 FM Knowledge graph Accounting
301 FM Knowledge graph Budget
The U.S. Space Force is accepting FY23 Interservice Transfer Program (IST) applications from June 15–30.The IST allows qualified individuals from other uniformed services to apply for transfer to active duty in the Space Force to fill select career fields.In order to be eligible, all applicants must meet the eligibility criteria in AFMAN 36-2032, Military Recruiting and Accessions.The Space Force is accepting applications from active-duty officers and enlisted personnel serving in the U.S. Air Force, Army, Navy and Marine Corps. Please note that sister service release is an essential part of the transfer process.All specialty codes can apply; however, the transferee must be able to fill the select specialty codes in the Space Force. See here for both enlisted and officer specialty codes.Follow the FY23 USSF Interservice Transfer Application Process instructions to submit your application.Attached Reference 1 – USSF Enlisted & Officer Specialty Code CrosswalkAttached Reference 2 – Salesforce Website Application InstructionsAttached Reference 3 – Transferring to the U.S. Space Force FAQsSample Attachment 1 – FY23 IST Transfer Request LetterSample Attachment 2 – FY23 IST CC EndorsementSample Attachment 3 – IST Candidate Data Form
94 FM Civilian pay
94 FM Civilian pay
94 FM Travel pay
All specialty codes can apply; however, the transferee must be able to fill the select specialty codes in the Space Force. See here for both enlisted and officer specialty codes.
All specialty codes can apply; however, the transferee must be able to fill the select specialty codes in the Space Force. See here for both enlisted and officer specialty codes.
All specialty codes can apply; however, the transferee must be able to fill the select specialty codes in the Space Force. See here for both enlisted and officer specialty codes.
New URL added Confidence gained from taking part in and leading in the developmental efforts of the Air Force’s first acquisitioned helicopter. Those early labors from concept to reality culminated as she climbed into one of the pilot seats for the MH-139A’s first flight under Air Force ownership at Eglin Air Force Base Aug. 17.“This milestone really represents the beginning of Air Force testing for the Grey Wolf,” said Clark, a former requirements officer with the Grey Wolf program, now at the 96th Operations Group. “We can now open up those test points for the military and push the envelope more to ensure we’re delivering that operational capability the units need out of the helicopter.”Confidence gained from taking part in and leading in the developmental efforts of the Air Force’s first acquisitioned helicopter. Those early labors from concept to reality culminated as she climbed into one of the pilot seats for the MH-139A’s first flight under Air Force ownership at Eglin Air Force Base Aug. 17.“This milestone really represents the beginning of Air Force testing for the Grey Wolf,” said Clark, a former requirements officer with the Grey Wolf program, now at the 96th Operations Group. “We can now open up those test points for the military and push the envelope more to ensure we’re delivering that operational capability the units need out of the helicopter.”
Following a recent contract award by the Air Force Security Forces Center, Helmet 2.0 includes the ability to mount a wider variety of accessories, features bolt-on accessory rails and a night vision goggle mount that’s easy to adjust or replace, and a chinstrap extender for gas masks.The 2.0 effort is part of AFSFC’s “replacement through attrition program,” and builds on the functionality of the SF NextGen 1.0 helmet released in 2020, said Master Sgt. John Sutherland, individual protective equipment program manager at the center.
Today, Secretary of Defense Lloyd J. Austin III announced that the Department of Defense will take appropriate actions to ensure service members and their families can access reproductive health care within its authority and consistent with applicable federal law, in addition to clear guidance for health care providers to operate effectively.These actions will establish travel and transportation allowances for service members and their families to access reproductive health care, establish additional privacy protections and conduct a comprehensive contraception education campaign.
Science, technology, engineering and math career fields are part of the Air Force Research Laboratory commanders’ intent to lead, discover, develop and deliver science, technology and innovation for warfighters. With the recent report on Line of Effort 3.6 showing low numbers in STEM advanced degrees in its general officers, the laboratory hopes to grow those numbers through various programs.Science, technology, engineering and math career fields are part of the Air Force Research Laboratory commanders’ intent to lead, discover, develop and deliver science, technology and innovation for warfighters. With the recent report on Line of Effort 3.6 showing low numbers in STEM advanced degrees in its general officers, the laboratory hopes to grow those numbers through various programs.
test 1
2
3
4
5
7
te
1
Among them is the AFRL Regional Research Hub, which works with Purdue and Cornell universities to provide more science and engineering opportunities; various STEM events, which introduce the career fields to the younger generation; Edison Grants, which promote technical proficiency in military members to provide more science and technology opportunities; and Project Arc, which is still in its grass-roots stages, but is making an impact, even in its infancy.
With a theme for 2022 of “Celebrating Traditions,” program managers at the Air Force Services Center honored the Air Force’s 75th birthday and gave photographers a chance to share their family and cultural traditions to highlight the diversity of military families, said Susan Lear, AFSVC photo contest coordinator.“Both the art contest (in the spring) and photo contest allow our military families to experience different things by giving them an opportunity to learn something new or fine tune their craft or skill through creative expression,” Lear said.“Art is a work in progress, always striving for perfection,” she said, “but it’s the flaws that give it beauty. Creating something reminds us w
With a theme for 2022 of “Celebrating Traditions,” program managers at the Air Force Services Center honored the Air Force’s 75th birthday and gave photographers a chance to share their family and cultural traditions to highlight the diversity of military families, said Susan Lear, AFSVC photo contest coordinator.“Both the art contest (in the spring) and photo contest allow our military families to experience different things by giving them an opportunity to learn something new or fine tune their craft or skill through creative expression,” Lear said.“Art is a work in progress, always striving for perfection,” she said, “but it’s the flaws that give it beauty. Creating something reminds us we are a work in progress too, always learning new ways and accepting that some of our flaws are perfection in the end.”
The Air Force Life Cycle Management Center at Robins Air Force Base is working on the next generation aircraft navigation system.The Resilient Embedded Global Positioning System/Inertial Navigation System program, or R-EGI for short, is one of the AFLCMC’s solutions to building resiliency into aircraft navigation systems.“We are modernizing GPS navigation systems,” said Jamey Sillence, Electronic Warfare and Avionics deputy senior materiel leader. “In the spirit of (Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. CQ Brown, Jr.’s) ‘Accelerate, Change or Lose’, we are bringing modernization to Robins AFB and the whole Air Force.”The evolution of electronic warfare is in the works via a prototype that can be used on weapons systems - like the F-15 EX, F-16 Fighting Falcon and MC-130J Commando II — offering an alternative precision, navigation and timing capabilities when GPS is not available.
JOINT BASE SAN ANTONIO-LACKLAND, Texas -- The Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center and its subordinate units deliver morale, welfare and recreation programs, activities and infrastructure to build and sustain ready and resilient Airmen, Guardians and families.  Many of the programs, missions and initiatives are closely associated with the Five and Thrive initiative that launched in 2021.  The initiative, developed by Sharene Brown, wife of Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. CQ Brown, Jr., and a diverse group of spouses on her Thrive Team, increases focus and attention on the top five quality of life challenges military families face.  The challenges – childcare, education, healthcare, housing and spouse employment – are directly tied to military family readiness, resilience and retention of the force, as are numerous supporting pillars such as the Airman’s Attic, exchange stores, commissaries, fitness centers, libraries, legal assistance and sexual assault response coordinators. During Military Family Appreciation Month, here's a look at some of the ways AFIMSC supports Five and Thrive challenge areas. 
MAJCOM Owner
MAJCOM
SAF FMF Owner added item
CSP Owner
SAF FMB Owner
bUDGET CATEGORY oWNER
Budget category Owner
AFIMSC
The Department of the Air Force kicked off a $10 million next-generation energy performance contract that will deliver resilient and reliable energy at Hanscom Air Force Base Feb. 14.The pilot project is the federal government’s first-ever effort to adopt and integrate a commercial Energy-as-a-Service, or EaaS, business model, which gives customers access to energy management services without upfront costs, to provide resilient, efficient, and cost-effective energy that will benefit an installation.
2023 Innovation Industry Days open for registration
Why are you and your team important to the Air Force and Space Force enterprise/your customers?Our team helps influence future tactics based off threat information for the security forces enterprise. We also help current deployers with timely threat information.Describe a project or event you and your team worked on recently that gave you a great sense of accomplishment: We have built briefs for two security forces units at Lackland; one an operational unit and one a training unit. The briefs explained the National Defense Strategy and threats to future operations that security forces may encounter in agile combat employment operations.
As Tyndall Air Force Base, Fla., becomes the ‘Installation of the Future’, following the catastrophic damage from Hurricane Michael in late 2018, several advanced technologies are being used. Of those technologies, the ability to use ‘additive manufacturing’--also known as ‘3D printing’--to construct concrete buildings as part of the rebuild. 3D printing of concrete buildings consists of a computer, software, and a large printer resulting in the construction of a three-dimensional object. In the rebuild for Tyndall, the object will be a building— but from a computer aided design (CAD) or digital 3D model. Engineers at AFIMSC’s Air Force Civil Engineer Center are leading the way with the research and development on the possibility of implementing this futuristic concrete building construction technique in future military construction projects.
test purpose 1
View More
Serve in a way that fits your lifestyle, working in the state you want and in a career that suits you with the flexibility to follow your personal goals out of uniform. 1234560
AFIMSC Owner Added item
Whether you enter as enlisted or an officer, we’re here to help you figure out the best options to launch your career and become the Airman you aim to be.
12345AD1
With over 200 available careers, part-time options and educational assistance, you get more ways to grow as you continue to serve—on duty and your own time. 123-12-1234
To be a world-class organization, inspiring all to achieve their full potential, while building on the MAINEiac tradition of excellence, teamwork and commitment to the mission. 1234567
 Maine Air National Guard is committed
 Maine Air National Guard is committed
 To learn more about available positions, view the links below or contact us for information on availability and how to get started. 123456789
The Air Force Installation Contracting Center is a worldwide-postured organization headquartered at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio, providing responsive and mission-enabling enterprise acquisition solutions for efficient and effective mission and installation operations across the Air Force. In addition to the AFICC headquarters and staff, AFICC operating locations are collocated with Air Force major command headquarters, eight enterprise sourcing squadrons aligned with categories of effort under the Air Force Category Management program (the 772nd Enterprise Sourcing Squadron that supports civil engineering, located in San Antonio with the Air Force Civil Engineer Center for example) and the Defense Technical Information Center at Offutt AFB, Nebraska. AFICC has over 750 personnel, performing above-wing contracting across the Air Force enterprise and supporting over 3,000 contracting professionals executing Air Force missions worldwide, approximately $58 billion over the last five years.
ewdwef
123456
4356785467
12345
test
sample test
test
111111111
11111111
test
TESTI
bUDGET CATEGORY oWNER
bUDGET CATEGORY oWNER
12345
