description	answer
Need information on MCC request	Financial services is the area Airmen perhaps are most familiar with. This is where transactions occur. A "transaction" is the series of paperwork and button-pushing events when an Airman needs just about anything done at his or her base finance office. A transaction could be the filing of a travel voucher, adjusting an allotment or correcting a pay error. It is the processing of these transactions, said Roger Bick, director of financial management strategic planning and transformation, where the Air Force financial management community starts its transformation efforts.

"If you leave base housing, a form is taken to finance (specialists) so they can start your basic allowance for housing," Mr. Bick said. "That's a transaction. We want to systemically evolve those processes. Instead, housing (officials) could put a code into a computer when you leave, and then a form wouldn't be hand carried anywhere. That reduces the cost to our Air Force."

Relationships between the finance office and other Air Force communities are also ripe for development, Mr. Bick said.

"You may go into (the finance office) because you are short $100 in your paycheck," he said. "They'll tell you it's because the personnel system didn't do 'X' -- perhaps they didn't start your entitlement. You say 'thank you' and go to personnel. You stand in the personnel line, and they tell you to check with finance.
Need information	Attaching the  document related to milpay
Need information..	SAF/FM is composed of four sub-organizations: FMB (Deputy Assistant 
Secretary for Budget), FMC (Deputy Assistant Secretary for Cost and 
Economics), FME (Directorate of Workforce Management and Executive 
Services), and FMF (Deputy Assistant Secretary for Financial 
Operations). Each of the sub-organizations supports an intrinsic part of
 the FM effort. In the paragraphs below, you will find information on 
the roles of these organizations, the products they supply to SAF/FM and
 the Air Force as a whole, and the structure of each.
How is Temporary Lodging Expense (TLE) computed?	50If you have more than one room, then you are still limited to 
$CT_TLE_Max for daily TLE reimbursement. The total of both rooms will be
 used as the actual lodging cost in the TLE computation. The table below
 shows the applicable percentage of the maximum lodging authorized for 
the per diem rate where lodged, based on eligible travelers (see 
$Per_Diem_Rates):

Number of Eligible Persons
Occupying Temporary Quarters
Percentage Applicable



Member or 1 dependent:
65%


Member and 1 dependent, or 2 dependents only:
100%


For each additional dependent age 12 and over, add:
35%


For each additional dependent under age 12, add:
25%




Regulations, Forms and Related Links
Regulation: $JTR_Chap_5_Part_A_Para_5434
Can I get Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH) and Overseas Housing Allowance (OHA) at the same time?	Yes, under certain conditions, you can receive BAH and OHA at the 
same time. The most common scenario for receiving BAH and OHA at the 
same time is that you are serving a dependent restricted tour and you 
live off-base at your PDS.  In this scenario, you would receive single 
rate OHA (Family Separation Housing-OHA Based Location, FSH-O) at your 
overseas location and with-dependent rate BAH for the location of your 
dependents.There are other possible scenarios concerning BAH and OHA. Please 
$CT_Contact_Info to discuss the details of your specific situation.To initiate, change, or update your BAH or OHA, please use $eFinance.Regulations, Forms and Related Links
Regulation: $JTR_Chap_10_Part_E_Sect_8_Para_10414
Related Links: $eFinance
What are Withholding Tax Allowance (WTA) and Relocation Income Tax Allowance (RITA)?	Relocation Income Tax Allowance (RITA) is
 an entitlement established to reimburse employees substantially all of 
the Federal, State, and local income taxes incurred because of 
reimbursements made on a PCS move.  The RITA entitlement is a two-year 
process and consists of two allowances -- the Withholding Tax Allowance 
(WTA) and the RITA payment.

WTA is an estimated payment of the 
final RITA payment and is payable only if you elect to receive it.  It 
is paid on each taxable claim that you have in conjunction with your PCS
 move and is intended as an immediate offset to the taxes withheld on 
your claims.  The WTA payment itself is subject to withholding.  The WTA
 allows you to receive the same reimbursement on your claims had 
withholding not been required. If you receive a WTA payment, it is 
mandatory that you file a RITA claim within 120 days after the new 
calendar year.

RITA payments are made in the calendar
 year following the calendar year in which the WTA was paid.  It is 
designed to compensate you for the additional tax liability incurred as a
 result of your government funded move. You must file a claim for your 
RITA, it is not automatic. The RITA will reconcile your WTA payments 
with your personal tax liability.

Your FSO will assist you in filing your RITA claim.
To further help you answer PCS questions,
 HQ AFPC/DPKD has published a guide for Civilian Permanent Change of 
Station Moves CONUS to CONUS and CONUS to Non-Foreign Overseas and 
Return (dated 7 Apr 2006) which can be found on the AFPC website link 
below.
Regulations, Forms and Related Links
Regulation: $AFI_65_114_Chap_10_Sec_10B_10_23
Regulation: $DODFMR_Vol_9_Chap_6_Para_0612
Regulation: $JTR_Chap_5_Part_B_Sec_B16
Related Link: $AFPC_Website
How do I start/stop my Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) contribution?	Visit the $myPay website to start, stop, or change your TSP withholding.
To make changes to your fund contribution allocations, please visit the $Thrift_Savings_Plan_Website.
Regulations, Forms and Related Links
Related Link: $myPay
Related Link: $Thrift_Savings_Plan_Website     
How do I start/stop my Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) contribution?	None
After a year-long hiatus due to COVID-19, the U.S. Air Force Academy Cadet Summer Program recently returned to the Air Force Civil Engineer Center’s Readiness Laboratory here. How do I start/stop my Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) contribution?	After a year-long hiatus due to COVID-19, the U.S. Air Force Academy Cadet Summer Program recently returned to the Air Force Civil Engineer Center’s Readiness Laboratory here. After a year-long hiatus due to COVID-19, the U.S. Air Force Academy Cadet Summer Program recently returned to the Air Force Civil Engineer Center’s Readiness Laboratory here. 
Which receipts do I need to submit with my PCS voucher?	When you submit your PCS voucher, you must include receipts for the following expenses:
1. Lodging (Only required if lodging was incurred at either your Port
 of Debarkation (POD) or Port of Embarkation (POE) when PCS'ing to/from 
OCONUS)
2. Common carrier transportation
3. Each miscellaneous expenditure of $75 or more, such as taxi, excess baggage, visa, etc.
The receipt must show the date on which the specific services were 
rendered or the articles were purchased, and the unit price for each 
item.
If receipts cannot be obtained, or have been inadvertently lost or 
destroyed, you must submit a written statement explaining the 
circumstances. For lodging, this written statement must include:

the name and address of the lodging facility
the dates of your stay at the facility
the cost incurred broken down by day for the length of the stay

Regulations, Forms and Related Links
Regulation: $DODFMR_Vol_9_Chap_8_Para_080305
Will I receive a separate W-2 for my personally procured move (PPM, formerly DITY)?	Yes, a separate W-2 will be generated when a PPM is performed. You can log into $myPay to view or print your W-2.


Regulations, Forms and Related Links
Regulation: $DODFMR_Vol_9_Chap_6_Para_060302C
Related Link: $myPay
Real Estate, Househunting, Household Goods	Teams tasked with tackling the Air and Space Forces’ most challenging Agile Combat Support issues delivered their recommendations April 21 at the 2021 Installation and Mission Support Weapons and Tactics Conference.
TQSA & Foreign Transfer Allowance (FTA)	
Temporary quarters subsistence allowance (TQSA) is an allowance 
intended to provide reimbursement for your temporary living expenses 
(including meals and laundry/dry-cleaning expenses) incurred in 
conjunction with a PCS to a new foreign OCONUS area or immediately 
preceding your final departure from that permanent duty station 
(PDS).  Additional information on TQSA can be found in Department of 
State Standard Regulations (DSSR) Section 120.  

Foreign transfer allowance (FTA):  For FTA policy, payment, and procedural guidance see DSSR Section 240.
TQSE & Miscellaneous Expenses	Temporary quarters subsistence expense is an allowance intended to 
provide reimbursement for your temporary living expenses incurred in 
conjunction with a PCS to a new permanent duty station (PDS) in the 
CONUS or non-foreign OCONUS area.  Your orders will indicate the number 
of TQSE days authorized.  The number of authorized TQSE days should be 
sufficient to relocate and settle into your new permanent 
quarters.  Extensions may be approved by your orders approving official 
on a case-by-case basis only when circumstances are beyond your control 
and are acceptable to the approving official.

There are two types of TQSE:  

Actual (AE) - Actual expense reimbursement for your temporary lodging 
not to exceed 60 days (may be extended up to 120 under extenuating 
circumstances)

Fixed (F) - a fixed amount payment limited to a total of 30 days.

Miscellaneous expense allowance (MEA) is designed to offset the cost of 
relocating your household.  It is a flat rate based on your dependency 
status.  It must be authorized in your orders and cannot be advanced.
Who approves an actual expense authorization (AEA) if my TDY lodging rate exceeds the maximum rate for the area?	our orders Approving Official (AO) may authorize AEA up to 300% of 
the locality per diem rate (rounded to the next higher dollar). Actual 
expense allowance (AEA) allows you to be reimbursed, in unusual 
circumstances, for actual and necessary expenses that exceed the maximum
 locality per diem rate.

Uniformed Members Only:

Under special/unusual circumstances or when you have no alternative 
but to obtain OCONUS lodging that exceeds 300% of the applicable rate, 
an amount in excess of 300% may be authorized in advance only by an AEA issued by:


The PDTATAC Division Chief
The Secretary Concerned for specific OCONUS classified missions



Regulations, Forms and Related Links
Regulation: $JTR_Chap_4_Part_C_Para_4310
Related Link: $Per_Diem_Rates
Who do I contact if I'm receiving the wrong entitlement rate for my Aviation Career Incentive Pay (ACIP) / Hazardous Duty Incentive Pay (HDIP)?	Who do I contact if I'm receiving the wrong entitlement rate for my Aviation Career Incentive Pay (ACIP) / Hazardous Duty Incentive Pay (HDIP)?
The primary responsibility of the 
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Financial Management and 
Comptroller (SAF/FM) is to exercise of the comptroller functions of the 
Department of the Air Force, including financial management functions. 
SAF/FM is composed of four directorates, or "3-Letter" organizations, 
each providing critical services to achieve the FM Mission:
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget 
(SAF/FMB); Deputy Assistant Secretary for Cost and Economics 
(SAF/FMC); Deputy Assistant Secretary for Financial Operations (SAF/FMF 
and SAF/FM CIO); and the Directorate of Workforce Management and 
Executive Services (SAF/FME). 234234123	The primary responsibility of the 
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Financial Management and 
Comptroller (SAF/FM) is to exercise of the comptroller functions of the 
Department of the Air Force, including financial management functions. 
SAF/FM is composed of four directorates, or "3-Letter" organizations, 
each providing critical services to achieve the FM Mission:
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget 
(SAF/FMB); Deputy Assistant Secretary for Cost and Economics 
(SAF/FMC); Deputy Assistant Secretary for Financial Operations (SAF/FMF 
and SAF/FM CIO); and the Directorate of Workforce Management and 
Executive Services (SAF/FME).The primary responsibility of the 
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Financial Management and 
Comptroller (SAF/FM) is to exercise of the comptroller functions of the 
Department of the Air Force, including financial management functions. 
SAF/FM is composed of four directorates, or "3-Letter" organizations, 
each providing critical services to achieve the FM Mission:
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget 
(SAF/FMB); Deputy Assistant Secretary for Cost and Economics 
(SAF/FMC); Deputy Assistant Secretary for Financial Operations (SAF/FMF 
and SAF/FM CIO); and the Directorate of Workforce Management and 
Executive Services (SAF/FME). 451451
The primary responsibility of the 
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Financial Management and 
Comptroller (SAF/FM) is to exercise of the comptroller functions of the 
Department of the Air Force, including financial management functions. 
SAF/FM is composed of four directorates, or "3-Letter" organizations, 
each providing critical services to achieve the FM Mission:
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget 
(SAF/FMB); Deputy Assistant Secretary for Cost and Economics 
(SAF/FMC); Deputy Assistant Secretary for Financial Operations (SAF/FMF 
and SAF/FM CIO); and the Directorate of Workforce Management and 
Executive Services (SAF/FME). 451451784	The primary responsibility of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Financial Management and Comptroller (SAF/FM) is to exercise of the comptroller functions of the Department of the Air Force, including financial management functions. SAF/FM is composed of four directorates, or "3-Letter" organizations, each providing critical services to achieve the FM Mission:Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget (SAF/FMB); Deputy Assistant Secretary for Cost and Economics (SAF/FMC); Deputy Assistant Secretary for Financial Operations (SAF/FMF and SAF/FM CIO); and the Directorate of Workforce Management and Executive Services (SAF/FME). 451451784
The President of the United States issued a Memorandum on Federal
Fleet Performance to senior leaders of all Executive Departments and
Agencies in the Federal Government May 24, 2011, providing guidance
to the agencies to help achieve the Administration's Federal fleet
performance goals, and to ensure that agencies are in compliance with
Executive Order 13514 of October 5, 2009, Federal Leadership in
Environmental, Energy, and Economic Performance.
The Presidential Memorandum directed that any executive fleet vehicles
that are larger than a midsize sedan or do not comply with alternative
fueled vehicle requirements must be disclosed on agency websites.
The U.S. Air Force, through Lt. Gen. Judith A. Fedder, Deputy Chief of
Staff for Logistics, Installations and Mission Support, identified executive
fleet vehicles in the Air Force vehicle fleet that are in this category. The
executive fleet vehicle listing and supporting documentation are contained
herein. 	The President of the United States issued a Memorandum on Federal
Fleet Performance to senior leaders of all Executive Departments and
Agencies in the Federal Government May 24, 2011, providing guidance
to the agencies to help achieve the Administration's Federal fleet
performance goals, and to ensure that agencies are in compliance with
Executive Order 13514 of October 5, 2009, Federal Leadership in
Environmental, Energy, and Economic Performance.
The Presidential Memorandum directed that any executive fleet vehicles
that are larger than a midsize sedan or do not comply with alternative
fueled vehicle requirements must be disclosed on agency websites.
The U.S. Air Force, through Lt. Gen. Judith A. Fedder, Deputy Chief of
Staff for Logistics, Installations and Mission Support, identified executive
fleet vehicles in the Air Force vehicle fleet that are in this category. The
executive fleet vehicle listing and supporting documentation are contained
herein. 
Who is the higher level user of Budget Category?	SAFFMB is the higher level user of Budget Category.
Who can elevate to TravelPay Ellsworth?	TravelPay manager can elevate to TravelPay Ellsworth.
What is CSP?	Comptroller Services Portal
Who are the CPTS level users in Budget Category?	Budget analyst, Lead Budget Analyst, Budget Supervisor, Budget Manager
who are the enterprise level users in Budget category?	Comptroller,Majcom,AFIMSC,SAFFMB
What is Civpay Personnel Officer?	CivPay personnel Officer is an Enterprise level Officer.
JOINT BASE SAN ANTONIO-LACKLAND, Texas -- Meet #IMSCFamily M. Katie George, spouse of Lt. Col. Brian M. George, a civil engineer with AFIMSC’s Detachment 3, Hurlburt Field, Florida.She’s been around the military for 21 years, and a Department of Defense Education Activity teacher for six of those years.We asked her to share a little more about her	The Air Force offered its first glimpse of a new virtual operations prototype during a live equipment demonstration at Tyndall AFB this week.
Air Force Recruiting Service and their partners at Richard Petty Motorsports and Ed Carpenter Racing, introduced their newest paint scheme April 20, which pays homage to the original trailblazers, the Tuskegee Airmen.	The Air Force offered its first glimpse of a new virtual operations prototype during a live equipment demonstration at Tyndall AFB this week.
The variety of resources available to Air Force EAP users will increase with the revamping of the program's coaching and financial services, which go live May 1. The EAP is expanding the level of support to members by encompassing “positive” engagements like lifestyle coaching, where participants can establish goals and priorities to maximize personal stability.	Air Force Recruiting Service and their partners at Richard Petty Motorsports and Ed Carpenter Racing, introduced their newest paint scheme April 20, which pays homage to the original trailblazers, the Tuskegee Airmen.
JOINT BASE SAN ANTONIO-LACKLAND, Texas – The Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center continues its dedication to Airmen, Guardians and their families by partnering with Headquarters Air Force to deliver quality child care facilities across the enterprise.Quality infrastructure enables quality care for military children while their parents	Janeva Maxson is the new Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center Detachment 5 civilian leader at Joint Base Andrews, Maryland.
To whom Accounting technician can elevate inquiry ?	Accounting technician can elavate to lead accounting technician, accounting superviosr, accounting manager
JOINT BASE SAN ANTONIO-LACKLAND, Texas – Members of the Defense Department can view a live stream of the 2021 Installation and Mission Support Weapons and Tactics Conference outbriefs held April 21 at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland.	"I hope by sharing my story, it will help you deal with your own personal challenge, or help others through their own struggle."
To whom Accounting technician can elevate inquiry ?	Technician can elevate to lead accounting tech , accounting superviosor, accounting manager
To whom Accounting technician can elevate inquiry ?	To whom Accounting technician can elevate inquiry 
JOINT BASE SAN ANTONIO-LACKLAND, Texas – Members of the Defense Department can view a live stream of the 2021 Installation and Mission Support Weapons and Tactics Conference outbriefs held April 21 at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland.	Meet Pamela Miller, cultural resources media manager and Native American tribal specialist, Peterson Air Force Base Installation Management Support, Air Force Civil Engineer Center.
Applications are open for this year’s Air Force Youth Programs’ Virtual Teen Aviation Camp. Applications are due no later than April 14. The virtual camp, held in partnership with Air Force Aero Clubs, is June 14-25 and offers an introduction to the field of aviation and opportunities for careers and leadership roles within the Air Force and Space Force.	Meet Crystal Delk, Government Information Specialist, AFIMSC Installation Support Directorate, Joint Base San Antonio – Lackland, Texas.
Is a cost reimbursement based allowance to help 
defray housing costs incident to assignments to a PDS outside the United States. Members 
are reimbursed actual rental costs not to exceed the maximum OHA rate for each locality 
and grade. There are two types of allowances paid under OHA, Move-In Housing 
Allowance (MIHA) and monthly OHA including a utility/recurring maintenance allowance. 
The location MIHA (for those who qualify) is based on the average “move-in” costs for 
members. The monthly OHA is the rent, up to the rental allowance at a PDS, plus the 
utility/recurring maintenance allowance.	Is a cost reimbursement based allowance to help 
defray housing costs incident to assignments to a PDS outside the United States. Members 
are reimbursed actual rental costs not to exceed the maximum OHA rate for each locality 
and grade. There are two types of allowances paid under OHA, Move-In Housing 
Allowance (MIHA) and monthly OHA including a utility/recurring maintenance allowance. 
The location MIHA (for those who qualify) is based on the average “move-in” costs for 
members. The monthly OHA is the rent, up to the rental allowance at a PDS, plus the 
utility/recurring maintenance allowance.
1. Lodging receipts: A traveler’s name MUST appear on the lodging receipt to get reimbursement. The bill should have a $0 paid balance.*If room costs are shared between multiple travelers (i.e. midshipmen), each traveler must produce an individual receipt in their name.2. The emailed copy of the itinerary receipt from SATO showing billing information.3. Rental car final receipt (if applicable & approved on travel authorization)4. Certificate of Non-Availability for Govt Lodging or Govt Vehicle Request (if applicable)5. Conference Receipt if paid on site and reimbursed via DTS.6. Receipts for all expenses $75.00 or greater.7. For currency conversion, documentation must be uploaded in substantiating records showing how the final costs were calculated. Conversions can often be found on credit card statements and can be used as long as it is clear that receipts match the charges.For foreign currency exchange: http://www.oanda.com/currency/converter/Be sure to select the date to match the receipt.8. A 1351-2 paper voucher must be completed and signed by the traveler if a NDEA is submitting the voucher on the traveler’s behalf. This must be uploaded into substantiating records.The Comptroller	1. Lodging receipts: A traveler’s name MUST appear on the lodging receipt to get reimbursement. The bill should have a $0 paid balance.*If room costs are shared between multiple travelers (i.e. midshipmen), each traveler must produce an individual receipt in their name.2. The emailed copy of the itinerary receipt from SATO showing billing information.3. Rental car final receipt (if applicable & approved on travel authorization)4. Certificate of Non-Availability for Govt Lodging or Govt Vehicle Request (if applicable)5. Conference Receipt if paid on site and reimbursed via DTS.6. Receipts for all expenses $75.00 or greater.7. For currency conversion, documentation must be uploaded in substantiating records showing how the final costs were calculated. Conversions can often be found on credit card statements and can be used as long as it is clear that receipts match the charges.For foreign currency exchange: http://www.oanda.com/currency/converter/Be sure to select the date to match the receipt.8. A 1351-2 paper voucher must be completed and signed by the traveler if a NDEA is submitting the voucher on the traveler’s behalf. This must be uploaded into substantiating records.The Comptroller
All travel orders will include the following statement notifying travelers of the requirements of the Travel and Transportation Reform Act and DoDI 5154.31 Vol 4, GTCC Regulations: "The TTRA stipulates that the GTCC will be used by all US Government personnel, civilian, and military, to pay for costs incident to official Government travel unless specifically exempt." (T-0) Travel orders must also include a statement indicating whether the traveler does, or does not have a Government Travel Charge Card (T-1).	All travel orders will include the following statement notifying travelers of the requirements of the Travel and Transportation Reform Act and DoDI 5154.31 Vol 4, GTCC Regulations: "The TTRA stipulates that the GTCC will be used by all US Government personnel, civilian, and military, to pay for costs incident to official Government travel unless specifically exempt." (T-0) Travel orders must also include a statement indicating whether the traveler does, or does not have a Government Travel Charge Card (T-1).
Military members must, and civilians and dependents may, familiarize themselves with AFI 16-1301, Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape (SERE) Program, for training and education measures necessary to support the Code of Conduct based on location of duty or nature of duty performed (T-1).	Military members must, and civilians and dependents may, familiarize themselves with AFI 16-1301, Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape (SERE) Program, for training and education measures necessary to support the Code of Conduct based on location of duty or nature of duty performed (T-1).
Military members must, and civilians and dependents may, familiarize themselves with AFI 16-1301, Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape (SERE) Program, for training and education measures necessary to support the Code of Conduct based on location of duty or nature of duty performed (T-1).	Military members must, and civilians and dependents may, familiarize themselves with AFI 16-1301, Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape (SERE) Program, for training and education measures necessary to support the Code of Conduct based on location of duty or nature of duty performed (T-1).
What is CSP site?	It is Comptroller Service Portal.
What are the contents in content management section?	Quick links, Knowledge articles, Q&A, Policy memo, Calendar, Announcements, Points of contact, Help Desk, Team members
what is ROS?	Report of Survey
What is DHA?	Defense Health Agency
What is ANG?	Air National Guards
TravelPay ellsworth in which level?	Enterprise level
What is SAFFMF?	SAFFMF is an Enterprise level user.
What is MAJCOM?	MAJCOM is an enterprise level user in CSP site.
What is TravelPay Ellsworth?	TravelPay Ellsworth is an enterprise level user in TravelPay Category.
What is SAFFMB?	SAFFMB is the enterprise level user for Budget ctaegory..
Agencies shall identify all executive fleet vehicles and determine if any arelarger than a midsize sedan (including Sport Utility Vehicles (SUVs) that are larger thanintermediate) or are not AFV. Executive fleet vehicles are vehicles used primarily totransport Senior Executives (Heads of Agencies, Senior Executive Service (SES)employees, and General Officers).	(a) Agencies shall identify all executive fleet vehicles and determine if any arelarger than a midsize sedan (including Sport Utility Vehicles (SUVs) that are larger thanintermediate) or are not AFV. Executive fleet vehicles are vehicles used primarily totransport Senior Executives (Heads of Agencies, Senior Executive Service (SES)employees, and General Officers).(b) Executive fleet vehicles that are larger than midsize sedans or are not AFVsmust be disclosed on the website of the agency operating the vehicles within 180 daysof the date of the memorandum (on or before November 17, 2011). The website mustbe publicly accessible, in a location that may be found using the search term "executivefleet vehicles". The data posted should include each vehicle's make, model, year ofmanufacture, fuel type, and the office to which the vehicle is assigned.
Write only the full year in which the travel began even when the travel crosses into the next calendar year. For example, if your travel began 22Nov2014 and ended 15Feb2015 write 2014 as the year.	Write only the full year in which the travel began even when the travel crosses into the next calendar year. For example, if your travel began 22Nov2014 and ended 15Feb2015 write 2014 as the year.Write in every stop to/from your temporary duty location and home using the “DEP” and “ARR” rows to make sure you are paid correctly for all stops, including any overnight stays while en route.Also, it is imperative that you return to your permanent duty station (PDS) or home of record (HOR) by the final day on your travel order. For example, the traveler goes TCS to Afghanistan and is authorized 270 days out. The traveler leaves the area of responsibility (AOR) on day 270 but it takes 3 days to return to his PDS bringing the total number of days out to 273. The traveler must obtain an amendment and file a supplemental claim to be reimbursed for travel on those 3 days. Otherwise he will only be paid for the 270 days. Contact the command who issued the original orders to get the amendment.
On 24 May 2011, the President issued a Federal Fleet Performance memorandum directing federal agencies to lead by example in fuel efficiency and innovative technology, including putting one million advanced vehicles on the road by 2015. The memo states, " ... executive fleets are required to achieve maximum fuel efficiency; be limited in motor vehicle body size, engine size, and optional equipment to what is essential to the mission; and be midsize or smaller sedans, except where larger sedans are essential to the agency mission." 	The memo further states, " ... within 180 days of the memorandum, any executive fleet vehicles that are larger than a midsize sedan or do not comply with alternative fuel vehicle (AFV) requirements must be disclosed on agency websites." This includes vehicles assigned to senior leadership. In order to meet the intent of the President's memorandum, our vehicle management experts are analyzing the Air Force's executive fleet and identifying those vehicles larger than midsize sedans or not AFV. Vehicles not meeting the criteria will be posted on the Air Force website and targeted for replacement with a smaller, AFV upon lease termination or end-of-life for Air Force owned vehicles.The actions listed above ensure the Air Force acquires and maintains the minimum number of vehicles to accomplish the mission. I challenge senior leaders and fleet managers at all levels to examine every opportunity to downsize the fleet to a smaller, more fuel-efficient posture to help meet the President's energy goals. My point of contact for this action is CMSgt Kenneth Campbell, AF/A4LE, at DSN 588-2115.
Vehicle Technologies	By December 31, 2015, all new light duty vehicles leased or purchased by agencies must be alternative fueled vehicles, such as hybrid or electric, compressed natural gas, or biofuel. Moreover, agency alternative fueled vehicles must, as soon as practicable, be located in proximity to fueling stations with availab~e alternative fuels, and be operated on.the alternative fuel for which the vehicle is designed. Where practicable, agencies should encourage development of commercia+ infrastructure for alternative fuel or provide flex fuel and alternative fuel pumps and charging stations at Federal fueling sites.
Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center leaders recently released results of the AFIMSC section of the Air Force Materiel Command Diversity and Inclusion Survey conducted late last year.Nearly 900 members from across the worldwide AFIMSC enterprise took the survey for a 26-percent response rate.Aggregate data from the report confirms a significant organizational commitment to diversity and inclusion with no major areas of concern. However, results indicate a disparity in awareness of D&I initiatives and positive climate perceptions among differing supervisory levels, with those at lower ranks and grades viewing command efforts less favorably.Consequently, D&I program officials expressed a need for additional emphasis in the following areas:Raising awareness of current Air Force and Air Force Materiel Command diversity activities;Increasing participation in sensing sessions by emphasizing their value;Developing awareness of personal psychological safety when discussing sensitive topics like backgrounds and experiences;Communicating leadership actions following identification of concerns;Providing more transparency in hiring practices and promotions; andCommunicating the process the command follows to allay fear of retaliation and reprisal for those who report discrimination or other illegal personnel practices.“Achieving diversity and inclusion is about having an open dialogue amongst ourselves – at every level of our organization,” said AFIMSC Commander Maj. Gen. Tom Wilcox. “Let’s talk about those sensitive topics. Some of us may be reluctant or afraid at first, but let’s do it and learn from one another. We need to listen with an open mind as respected and valued members of our enterprise, As I’ve said in the past, ultimately, this is about becoming a better team by building lasting and meaningful trust relationships. Our focus is to make AFIMSC a better place for everyone.”As a result of the survey, the AFIMSC D&I Council is developing action plans to enhance education and training across the enterprise.“We’ve identified some areas for improvement, particularly with sensing sessions,” said Robert Jackson, director of personnel, who oversees AFIMSC D&I efforts. “Our emphasis on sensing sessions requires us to address psychological safety when discussing our own backgrounds and experiences in a diverse group setting. Although we encourage free and open communication, we know now we need to shape the sessions and better define them.”The survey helped determine a baseline for D&I perceptions across AFMC, with future assessments planned to evaluate progress and further diversity, equity and inclusion across the command. More than 14,000 military and civilian Airmen in AFMC responded to the survey, which ran from Nov. 30-Dec. 21, 2020. Participants provided more than 3,500 comments in response to the open-ended section.According to AFMC officials, information gathered will be used to adjust some of the command’s ongoing activities, to include modifying the communication strategy to target those who may not be aware of the efforts and to encourage increased engagement by first-line supervisors.For up-to-date information on AFMC diversity and inclusion efforts, visit https://www.afmc.af.mil/About-Us/Featured-Topics/Diversity/.	Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center leaders recently released results of the AFIMSC section of the Air Force Materiel Command Diversity and Inclusion Survey conducted late last year.Nearly 900 members from across the worldwide AFIMSC enterprise took the survey for a 26-percent response rate.Aggregate data from the report confirms a significant organizational commitment to diversity and inclusion with no major areas of concern. However, results indicate a disparity in awareness of D&I initiatives and positive climate perceptions among differing supervisory levels, with those at lower ranks and grades viewing command efforts less favorably.Consequently, D&I program officials expressed a need for additional emphasis in the following areas:Raising awareness of current Air Force and Air Force Materiel Command diversity activities;Increasing participation in sensing sessions by emphasizing their value;Developing awareness of personal psychological safety when discussing sensitive topics like backgrounds and experiences;Communicating leadership actions following identification of concerns;Providing more transparency in hiring practices and promotions; andCommunicating the process the command follows to allay fear of retaliation and reprisal for those who report discrimination or other illegal personnel practices.“Achieving diversity and inclusion is about having an open dialogue amongst ourselves – at every level of our organization,” said AFIMSC Commander Maj. Gen. Tom Wilcox. “Let’s talk about those sensitive topics. Some of us may be reluctant or afraid at first, but let’s do it and learn from one another. We need to listen with an open mind as respected and valued members of our enterprise, As I’ve said in the past, ultimately, this is about becoming a better team by building lasting and meaningful trust relationships. Our focus is to make AFIMSC a better place for everyone.”As a result of the survey, the AFIMSC D&I Council is developing action plans to enhance education and training across the enterprise.“We’ve identified some areas for improvement, particularly with sensing sessions,” said Robert Jackson, director of personnel, who oversees AFIMSC D&I efforts. “Our emphasis on sensing sessions requires us to address psychological safety when discussing our own backgrounds and experiences in a diverse group setting. Although we encourage free and open communication, we know now we need to shape the sessions and better define them.”The survey helped determine a baseline for D&I perceptions across AFMC, with future assessments planned to evaluate progress and further diversity, equity and inclusion across the command. More than 14,000 military and civilian Airmen in AFMC responded to the survey, which ran from Nov. 30-Dec. 21, 2020. Participants provided more than 3,500 comments in response to the open-ended section.According to AFMC officials, information gathered will be used to adjust some of the command’s ongoing activities, to include modifying the communication strategy to target those who may not be aware of the efforts and to encourage increased engagement by first-line supervisors.For up-to-date information on AFMC diversity and inclusion efforts, visit https://www.afmc.af.mil/About-Us/Featured-Topics/Diversity/.
100 CPTS Milpay Category owner added Q and A	100 CPTS Milpay Category owner added Q and A
Civpay category owner added item	Civpay category owner added item
With the right contacts, tools and resources, a person can do just about anything.At the Air Force Materiel Command, a new initiative aims to better prepare leaders to develop more resilient Airmen and support suicide prevention activities across the mission.In a memo issued this month, Lt. Gen. Carl Schaefer, AFMC deputy commander, established a 30-day window for a new leaders to conduct an immersion with their local installation Violence Prevention Integrator focused on suicide prevention. The immersions will equip leaders with the tools and resources to foster cohesive, connected unit cultures and more resilient Airmen.“Leaders play a critical role in suicide prevention and response, and we’re taking extra steps to ensure they understand their role and the resources available to support them,” said Schaefer. “Losing a member to suicide always has a significant impact on a unit. We need to surround our leaders with the support structures to help prevent suicide and provide all the required resources, if an unfortunate event occurs.” The immersions will provide an opportunity for leaders to learn of the various installation support agencies and will include an overview of current messaging, prevention and intervention resources, annual by-law training requirements and more. Leaders will work directly with their installation VPI and local providers, establishing key relationships that will carry through their leadership service term.	With the right contacts, tools and resources, a person can do just about anything.At the Air Force Materiel Command, a new initiative aims to better prepare leaders to develop more resilient Airmen and support suicide prevention activities across the mission.In a memo issued this month, Lt. Gen. Carl Schaefer, AFMC deputy commander, established a 30-day window for a new leaders to conduct an immersion with their local installation Violence Prevention Integrator focused on suicide prevention. The immersions will equip leaders with the tools and resources to foster cohesive, connected unit cultures and more resilient Airmen.“Leaders play a critical role in suicide prevention and response, and we’re taking extra steps to ensure they understand their role and the resources available to support them,” said Schaefer. “Losing a member to suicide always has a significant impact on a unit. We need to surround our leaders with the support structures to help prevent suicide and provide all the required resources, if an unfortunate event occurs.” The immersions will provide an opportunity for leaders to learn of the various installation support agencies and will include an overview of current messaging, prevention and intervention resources, annual by-law training requirements and more. Leaders will work directly with their installation VPI and local providers, establishing key relationships that will carry through their leadership service term.
Threatened fish at Beale Air Force Base, California, are reaping the benefits of a partnership between the Air Force and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Specialists from Beale, the Air Force Civil Engineer Center and the USFWS recently completed a dam removal and creek restoration project there, making it easier for fish, including the Chinook salmon and federally threatened Central Valley steelhead, to travel upstream and spawn. The Army originally built Beale Lake Dam in 1943 as a recreational spot for Soldiers. In the 1980s, the Air Force realized the dam was impacting fish travel and constructed a concrete fish ladder to try to address the issue. In 2015, the Air Force recognized the fish ladder was undersized and outdated.“The need to address the obsolete dam and fish ladder and improve habitat conditions for sensitive fish species had long been identified as a significant goal in the installation Integrated Natural Resources Management Plan,” said Kevin Porteck, AFCEC natural resources subject matter expert.  “Fortunately, in 2018, we were able to get the funding and the partnerships in place to address the issue.”AFCEC reached out to USFWS for its expertise. Under the Sikes Act of 1960, the two agencies regularly work together to manage, conserve and rehabilitate natural resources at Department of the Air Force installations. “AFCEC initiated a more detailed study of this issue through a habitat assessment by USFWS fisheries biologists,” said Kirsten Christopherson, natural resources specialist for AFCEC’s western regional environmental support office, who led the dam removal project. “The study identified that there were two major barriers impeding fish passage – Beale Lake Dam and a low flow crossing that is 7.35 miles downstream from Beale AFB on private land.”Around the same time, a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers study found Beale Lake Dam to be in poor condition.“Base engineers determined that the long-term maintenance of the dam, and the potential liability for the dam’s failure, presented an unacceptable risk,” Christopherson said.Air Force engineers and natural resource managers determined it would be cheaper to remove the dam than repair it, and engaged the support of USFWS fisheries biologists.“We removed something that wasn’t really functional for us anymore and was actually going to be a hazard,” said Tamara Gallentine, natural and cultural resources program manager at Beale. USFWS engineers designed a new creek channel, using an area upstream of the dam as a model, and work began with draining the lake for a short period of time during the summer of 2019 in order to further study the channel. In addition to the dam removal, which was completed in October 2020, the team also implemented other aspects to assist fish migration, such as building a “rocky ramp” to help fish pass over a small natural waterfall upstream of the dam. “The goal was to raise the water surface elevations and create a jumping pool so fish are able to navigate over the waterfall,” said Jessica Pica, a USFWS fish passage engineer who worked on the project. “We played with different slopes and dimensions to get (a ramp) that worked.”They also planted native vegetation, including large trees, to prevent erosion and provide shade to help maintain fish-friendly water temperatures.“The removal of the dam, and associated outdated and ineffective fish ladder, helps to return natural processes to Dry Creek,” said Paul Cadrett, USFWS project manager for the project.  “These natural processes benefit native fish by returning the ecosystem to a more natural state.  This has multiple benefits to native plants and insects, as well as native fish and terrestrial animals.  These ecosystem changes are exciting to see and watch as they continue to evolve.”The project was unique and particularly challenging compared to previous environmental projects on base, requiring construction crews with heavy equipment in a riparian area full of wildlife and coordination with multiple on- and off-base partners. The California Department of Fish and Wildlife, the Center for Environmental Management of Military Lands and numerous volunteers provided extensive support in such areas as fish and wildlife relocation, project monitoring and revegetation planning.“Working with multiple agencies certainly had its challenges, but the overall benefits were realized through technical expertise, expedited environmental permitting, and public confidence in the project,” Christopherson said. “I had not been involved in a project before with so much support, excitement, and interest from Air Force leadership, engineering, and environmental, but also from regulatory agencies and local landowners.”The Covid-19 pandemic also brought a unique set of challenges.“This forced everyone involved in the project to take extraordinary steps to shift from in-person meetings to the virtual meetings that have taken over all of our work and personal lives,” Cadrett said. “Service staff that designed the project are from across the United States from Alaska to Massachusetts. Everyone involved in the project had to shift and shuffle plans to cover the onsite observations in order to successfully complete the project.”While the project successfully restored access to six miles of historic salmonid spawning habitat, Christopherson said they would like to see the remaining barrier downstream from the base removed as well. “The USFWS is continuing to pursue funding to implement the off-base work,” she said. “Once the off-base portions have been completed, over 13 miles of fish habitat will have been restored.”While the Air Force and USFWS played lead roles, several other organizations provided support and assistance as well, including the California Department of Fish and Wildlife, the National Marine Fisheries Service, the Central Valley Regional Water Quality Control Board and USACE. “The Air Force had a need to repair a failing dam at a high cost,” Christopherson said. “With less money, we were able to remove the dam and restore the site for the benefit of rare fish species. The project was a win-win for the Air Force, the taxpayer, and the environment.”	Threatened fish at Beale Air Force Base, California, are reaping the benefits of a partnership between the Air Force and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Specialists from Beale, the Air Force Civil Engineer Center and the USFWS recently completed a dam removal and creek restoration project there, making it easier for fish, including the Chinook salmon and federally threatened Central Valley steelhead, to travel upstream and spawn. The Army originally built Beale Lake Dam in 1943 as a recreational spot for Soldiers. In the 1980s, the Air Force realized the dam was impacting fish travel and constructed a concrete fish ladder to try to address the issue. In 2015, the Air Force recognized the fish ladder was undersized and outdated.“The need to address the obsolete dam and fish ladder and improve habitat conditions for sensitive fish species had long been identified as a significant goal in the installation Integrated Natural Resources Management Plan,” said Kevin Porteck, AFCEC natural resources subject matter expert.  “Fortunately, in 2018, we were able to get the funding and the partnerships in place to address the issue.”AFCEC reached out to USFWS for its expertise. Under the Sikes Act of 1960, the two agencies regularly work together to manage, conserve and rehabilitate natural resources at Department of the Air Force installations. “AFCEC initiated a more detailed study of this issue through a habitat assessment by USFWS fisheries biologists,” said Kirsten Christopherson, natural resources specialist for AFCEC’s western regional environmental support office, who led the dam removal project. “The study identified that there were two major barriers impeding fish passage – Beale Lake Dam and a low flow crossing that is 7.35 miles downstream from Beale AFB on private land.”Around the same time, a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers study found Beale Lake Dam to be in poor condition.“Base engineers determined that the long-term maintenance of the dam, and the potential liability for the dam’s failure, presented an unacceptable risk,” Christopherson said.Air Force engineers and natural resource managers determined it would be cheaper to remove the dam than repair it, and engaged the support of USFWS fisheries biologists.“We removed something that wasn’t really functional for us anymore and was actually going to be a hazard,” said Tamara Gallentine, natural and cultural resources program manager at Beale. USFWS engineers designed a new creek channel, using an area upstream of the dam as a model, and work began with draining the lake for a short period of time during the summer of 2019 in order to further study the channel. In addition to the dam removal, which was completed in October 2020, the team also implemented other aspects to assist fish migration, such as building a “rocky ramp” to help fish pass over a small natural waterfall upstream of the dam. “The goal was to raise the water surface elevations and create a jumping pool so fish are able to navigate over the waterfall,” said Jessica Pica, a USFWS fish passage engineer who worked on the project. “We played with different slopes and dimensions to get (a ramp) that worked.”They also planted native vegetation, including large trees, to prevent erosion and provide shade to help maintain fish-friendly water temperatures.“The removal of the dam, and associated outdated and ineffective fish ladder, helps to return natural processes to Dry Creek,” said Paul Cadrett, USFWS project manager for the project.  “These natural processes benefit native fish by returning the ecosystem to a more natural state.  This has multiple benefits to native plants and insects, as well as native fish and terrestrial animals.  These ecosystem changes are exciting to see and watch as they continue to evolve.”The project was unique and particularly challenging compared to previous environmental projects on base, requiring construction crews with heavy equipment in a riparian area full of wildlife and coordination with multiple on- and off-base partners. The California Department of Fish and Wildlife, the Center for Environmental Management of Military Lands and numerous volunteers provided extensive support in such areas as fish and wildlife relocation, project monitoring and revegetation planning.“Working with multiple agencies certainly had its challenges, but the overall benefits were realized through technical expertise, expedited environmental permitting, and public confidence in the project,” Christopherson said. “I had not been involved in a project before with so much support, excitement, and interest from Air Force leadership, engineering, and environmental, but also from regulatory agencies and local landowners.”The Covid-19 pandemic also brought a unique set of challenges.“This forced everyone involved in the project to take extraordinary steps to shift from in-person meetings to the virtual meetings that have taken over all of our work and personal lives,” Cadrett said. “Service staff that designed the project are from across the United States from Alaska to Massachusetts. Everyone involved in the project had to shift and shuffle plans to cover the onsite observations in order to successfully complete the project.”While the project successfully restored access to six miles of historic salmonid spawning habitat, Christopherson said they would like to see the remaining barrier downstream from the base removed as well. “The USFWS is continuing to pursue funding to implement the off-base work,” she said. “Once the off-base portions have been completed, over 13 miles of fish habitat will have been restored.”While the Air Force and USFWS played lead roles, several other organizations provided support and assistance as well, including the California Department of Fish and Wildlife, the National Marine Fisheries Service, the Central Valley Regional Water Quality Control Board and USACE. “The Air Force had a need to repair a failing dam at a high cost,” Christopherson said. “With less money, we were able to remove the dam and restore the site for the benefit of rare fish species. The project was a win-win for the Air Force, the taxpayer, and the environment.”
The vision of AFIMSC Ventures is a community of empowered and resourced Airmen ushering innovation into Installations and Mission Support. Our mission is to work jointly with installations and Mission Support Groups to navigate the dynamic Innovation Ecosystem and transform ideas into implemented solutions.AFIMSC Ventures will provide capital, guidance, and resources in partnership with Installation Sparks and the newly formed Defender, Engineer, and Services Sparks to realize your ideas.  We will provide funds & expertise for you to pursue:•  Small bets via the Small Business Innovation Research program (SBIR) Phase I•  Medium bets via SBIR Phase II, III, and RAPIDx CSO•  Big bet moonshots via STRATFI  	The vision of AFIMSC Ventures is a community of empowered and resourced Airmen ushering innovation into Installations and Mission Support. Our mission is to work jointly with installations and Mission Support Groups to navigate the dynamic Innovation Ecosystem and transform ideas into implemented solutions.AFIMSC Ventures will provide capital, guidance, and resources in partnership with Installation Sparks and the newly formed Defender, Engineer, and Services Sparks to realize your ideas.  We will provide funds & expertise for you to pursue:•  Small bets via the Small Business Innovation Research program (SBIR) Phase I•  Medium bets via SBIR Phase II, III, and RAPIDx CSO•  Big bet moonshots via STRATFI  
USAFC MAJCOM OWNER Add Q and A for Milpay Category	USAFC MAJCOM OWNER Add Q and A for Milpay Category
USAFC MAJCOM OWNER Add Q and A for Civilian Pay Category	USAFC MAJCOM OWNER Add Q and A for Civilian Pay Category
USAFC MAJCOM OWNER Add Q and A for Travel Pay Category	USAFC MAJCOM OWNER Add Q and A for Travel Pay Category
AFIMSC Owner added Q and A by Selecting Milpay Category	AFIMSC Owner added Q and A by Selecting Milpay Category
AFIMSC Owner added Q and A by Selecting Civpay Category	AFIMSC Owner added Q and A by Selecting Civpay Category
AFIMSC Owner added Q and A by Selecting Travel pay Category	AFIMSC Owner added Q and A by Selecting Travel pay Category
AFIMSC Owner added Q and A by Selecting Accounting Category	AFIMSC Owner added Q and A by Selecting Accounting Category
AFIMSC Owner added Q and A by Selecting Budget Category	AFIMSC Owner added Q and A by Selecting Budget Category
“He funded an innovative strategic plan in Florida to achieve military readiness through conservation partnerships,” Basili said.  “This plan created a landscape-scale approach to achieving conservation objectives for the Air Force that is becoming a national model for partnerships between DoD branches and state and federal partners.  It was also a foundational component of an application to designate the Northwest Florida Sentinel Landscape.”Porteck’s efforts to conserve and enhance populations of threatened and endangered species on and adjacent to Air Force installations was cited as yet another reason. He led efforts to enhance and facilitate the use of prescribed fire as a management tool, and championed numerous innovative conservation projects for species such as the Florida scrub-jay, Florida grasshopper sparrow, red-cockaded woodpecker, reticulated flatwoods salamander, indigo snake, gopher tortoise, several sub species of beach mice, and many other plants and animals. “I am so pleased to see Kevin recognized by the USFWS for his extensive accomplishments,” said Jeffrey Domm, AFCEC Environmental Management director. “His unflagging efforts and our USFWS partnership will continue to have a positive and lasting impact on our warfighters, communities and environment.”	“He funded an innovative strategic plan in Florida to achieve military readiness through conservation partnerships,” Basili said.  “This plan created a landscape-scale approach to achieving conservation objectives for the Air Force that is becoming a national model for partnerships between DoD branches and state and federal partners.  It was also a foundational component of an application to designate the Northwest Florida Sentinel Landscape.”Porteck’s efforts to conserve and enhance populations of threatened and endangered species on and adjacent to Air Force installations was cited as yet another reason. He led efforts to enhance and facilitate the use of prescribed fire as a management tool, and championed numerous innovative conservation projects for species such as the Florida scrub-jay, Florida grasshopper sparrow, red-cockaded woodpecker, reticulated flatwoods salamander, indigo snake, gopher tortoise, several sub species of beach mice, and many other plants and animals. “I am so pleased to see Kevin recognized by the USFWS for his extensive accomplishments,” said Jeffrey Domm, AFCEC Environmental Management director. “His unflagging efforts and our USFWS partnership will continue to have a positive and lasting impact on our warfighters, communities and environment.”
“He funded an innovative strategic plan in Florida to achieve military readiness through conservation partnerships,” Basili said.  “This plan created a landscape-scale approach to achieving conservation objectives for the Air Force that is becoming a national model for partnerships between DoD branches and state and federal partners.  It was also a foundational component of an application to designate the Northwest Florida Sentinel Landscape.”Porteck’s efforts to conserve and enhance populations of threatened and endangered species on and adjacent to Air Force installations was cited as yet another reason. He led efforts to enhance and facilitate the use of prescribed fire as a management tool, and championed numerous innovative conservation projects for species such as the Florida scrub-jay, Florida grasshopper sparrow, red-cockaded woodpecker, reticulated flatwoods salamander, indigo snake, gopher tortoise, several sub species of beach mice, and many other plants and animals. “I am so pleased to see Kevin recognized by the USFWS for his extensive accomplishments,” said Jeffrey Domm, AFCEC Environmental Management director. “His unflagging efforts and our USFWS partnership will continue to have a positive and lasting impact on our warfighters, communities and environment.”	“He funded an innovative strategic plan in Florida to achieve military readiness through conservation partnerships,” Basili said.  “This plan created a landscape-scale approach to achieving conservation objectives for the Air Force that is becoming a national model for partnerships between DoD branches and state and federal partners.  It was also a foundational component of an application to designate the Northwest Florida Sentinel Landscape.”Porteck’s efforts to conserve and enhance populations of threatened and endangered species on and adjacent to Air Force installations was cited as yet another reason. He led efforts to enhance and facilitate the use of prescribed fire as a management tool, and championed numerous innovative conservation projects for species such as the Florida scrub-jay, Florida grasshopper sparrow, red-cockaded woodpecker, reticulated flatwoods salamander, indigo snake, gopher tortoise, several sub species of beach mice, and many other plants and animals. “I am so pleased to see Kevin recognized by the USFWS for his extensive accomplishments,” said Jeffrey Domm, AFCEC Environmental Management director. “His unflagging efforts and our USFWS partnership will continue to have a positive and lasting impact on our warfighters, communities and environment.”
“He funded an innovative strategic plan in Florida to achieve military readiness through conservation partnerships,” Basili said.  “This plan created a landscape-scale approach to achieving conservation objectives for the Air Force that is becoming a national model for partnerships between DoD branches and state and federal partners.  It was also a foundational component of an application to designate the Northwest Florida Sentinel Landscape.”Porteck’s efforts to conserve and enhance populations of threatened and endangered species on and adjacent to Air Force installations was cited as yet another reason. He led efforts to enhance and facilitate the use of prescribed fire as a management tool, and championed numerous innovative conservation projects for species such as the Florida scrub-jay, Florida grasshopper sparrow, red-cockaded woodpecker, reticulated flatwoods salamander, indigo snake, gopher tortoise, several sub species of beach mice, and many other plants and animals. “I am so pleased to see Kevin recognized by the USFWS for his extensive accomplishments,” said Jeffrey Domm, AFCEC Environmental Management director. “His unflagging efforts and our USFWS partnership will continue to have a positive and lasting impact on our warfighters, communities and environment.”	“He funded an innovative strategic plan in Florida to achieve military readiness through conservation partnerships,” Basili said.  “This plan created a landscape-scale approach to achieving conservation objectives for the Air Force that is becoming a national model for partnerships between DoD branches and state and federal partners.  It was also a foundational component of an application to designate the Northwest Florida Sentinel Landscape.”Porteck’s efforts to conserve and enhance populations of threatened and endangered species on and adjacent to Air Force installations was cited as yet another reason. He led efforts to enhance and facilitate the use of prescribed fire as a management tool, and championed numerous innovative conservation projects for species such as the Florida scrub-jay, Florida grasshopper sparrow, red-cockaded woodpecker, reticulated flatwoods salamander, indigo snake, gopher tortoise, several sub species of beach mice, and many other plants and animals. “I am so pleased to see Kevin recognized by the USFWS for his extensive accomplishments,” said Jeffrey Domm, AFCEC Environmental Management director. “His unflagging efforts and our USFWS partnership will continue to have a positive and lasting impact on our warfighters, communities and environment.”
SAF FMF Owner added item for Accounting Category	SAF FMF Owner added item for Accounting Category
“He funded an innovative strategic plan in Florida to achieve military readiness through conservation partnerships,” Basili said.  “This plan created a landscape-scale approach to achieving conservation objectives for the Air Force that is becoming a national model for partnerships between DoD branches and state and federal partners.  It was also a foundational component of an application to designate the Northwest Florida Sentinel Landscape.”Porteck’s efforts to conserve and enhance populations of threatened and endangered species on and adjacent to Air Force installations was cited as yet another reason. He led efforts to enhance and facilitate the use of prescribed fire as a management tool, and championed numerous innovative conservation projects for species such as the Florida scrub-jay, Florida grasshopper sparrow, red-cockaded woodpecker, reticulated flatwoods salamander, indigo snake, gopher tortoise, several sub species of beach mice, and many other plants and animals. “I am so pleased to see Kevin recognized by the USFWS for his extensive accomplishments,” said Jeffrey Domm, AFCEC Environmental Management director. “His unflagging efforts and our USFWS partnership will continue to have a positive and lasting impact on our warfighters, communities and environment.”	“He funded an innovative strategic plan in Florida to achieve military readiness through conservation partnerships,” Basili said.  “This plan created a landscape-scale approach to achieving conservation objectives for the Air Force that is becoming a national model for partnerships between DoD branches and state and federal partners.  It was also a foundational component of an application to designate the Northwest Florida Sentinel Landscape.”Porteck’s efforts to conserve and enhance populations of threatened and endangered species on and adjacent to Air Force installations was cited as yet another reason. He led efforts to enhance and facilitate the use of prescribed fire as a management tool, and championed numerous innovative conservation projects for species such as the Florida scrub-jay, Florida grasshopper sparrow, red-cockaded woodpecker, reticulated flatwoods salamander, indigo snake, gopher tortoise, several sub species of beach mice, and many other plants and animals. “I am so pleased to see Kevin recognized by the USFWS for his extensive accomplishments,” said Jeffrey Domm, AFCEC Environmental Management director. “His unflagging efforts and our USFWS partnership will continue to have a positive and lasting impact on our warfighters, communities and environment.”
“He funded an innovative strategic plan in Florida to achieve military readiness through conservation partnerships,” Basili said.  “This plan created a landscape-scale approach to achieving conservation objectives for the Air Force that is becoming a national model for partnerships between DoD branches and state and federal partners.  It was also a foundational component of an application to designate the Northwest Florida Sentinel Landscape.”Porteck’s efforts to conserve and enhance populations of threatened and endangered species on and adjacent to Air Force installations was cited as yet another reason. He led efforts to enhance and facilitate the use of prescribed fire as a management tool, and championed numerous innovative conservation projects for species such as the Florida scrub-jay, Florida grasshopper sparrow, red-cockaded woodpecker, reticulated flatwoods salamander, indigo snake, gopher tortoise, several sub species of beach mice, and many other plants and animals. “I am so pleased to see Kevin recognized by the USFWS for his extensive accomplishments,” said Jeffrey Domm, AFCEC Environmental Management director. “His unflagging efforts and our USFWS partnership will continue to have a positive and lasting impact on our warfighters, communities and environment.”	“He funded an innovative strategic plan in Florida to achieve military readiness through conservation partnerships,” Basili said.  “This plan created a landscape-scale approach to achieving conservation objectives for the Air Force that is becoming a national model for partnerships between DoD branches and state and federal partners.  It was also a foundational component of an application to designate the Northwest Florida Sentinel Landscape.”Porteck’s efforts to conserve and enhance populations of threatened and endangered species on and adjacent to Air Force installations was cited as yet another reason. He led efforts to enhance and facilitate the use of prescribed fire as a management tool, and championed numerous innovative conservation projects for species such as the Florida scrub-jay, Florida grasshopper sparrow, red-cockaded woodpecker, reticulated flatwoods salamander, indigo snake, gopher tortoise, several sub species of beach mice, and many other plants and animals. “I am so pleased to see Kevin recognized by the USFWS for his extensive accomplishments,” said Jeffrey Domm, AFCEC Environmental Management director. “His unflagging efforts and our USFWS partnership will continue to have a positive and lasting impact on our warfighters, communities and environment.”
SAF FMB Owner added item	SAF FMB Owner added item
Travel Pay Ellsworth Owner added item for travel pay category	Travel Pay Ellsworth Owner added item for travel pay category
SAF FMF Owner is in AFIMSC Owner and add item for Milpay category 	SAF FMF Owner is in AFIMSC Owner and add item for Milpay category 
SAF FMF Owner in MAJCOM Owner	SAF FMF Owner in MAJCOM Owner
Every year my kid’s school asks me – multiple times – if we are military. It doesn’t matter where we live, they always want to know … during registration, enrollment, and mid-semester! Why do they care? Why does it matter? Should I tell them? For the longest time, I answered “No,” because I figured it was none of their business. It turns out I was WRONG! There are at least three reasons why schools ask for military affiliation.	First, teachers want to know. Most are genuinely concerned about their students. They want to understand the children, so they can support them better. Military students are considered “highly mobile,” meaning they move every few years. According to the Department of Defense Education Activity, “The average military family will move six to nine times during a school career. That’s…three times more frequently than non-military families.” Teachers who know some of their students in their class are military kids can help ease their transition into the new school.Second is money. President Truman established the Federal Impact Aid program in 1950 to reimburse school districts for the lost revenue and additional costs associated with nontaxable Federal properties, like a base or a VA facility. According to the National Association of Federally Impacted Schools, most public school districts are funded primarily through local taxes and fees. When you live in military housing, shop at the Exchange, or fill up your gas tank on base, you aren’t paying local taxes or fees, reducing funding for the community’s schools. The Federal Impact Aid program offsets this lost revenue, but school districts can only apply if enough families disclose their military affiliation, each fall.
Frank Kendall told the Senate Armed Services Committee May 25 that if he is confirmed as the 26th Secretary of the Air Force he will continue reshaping the Air and Space forces to confront near-peer adversaries such as China, nurture the Space Force’s successful evolution and ensure that Airmen, Guardians and their families are well served.	“If confirmed, my priorities would be straightforward and mirror precisely those articulated by Secretary of Defense (Lloyd) Austin as they apply to the Department of the Air Force – taking care of our people, mission performance, and building teams. Our military is people first and foremost,” he told the committee.“With regard to mission performance, I believe the range and severity of the threats that we face and will face, the rapid pace of technological innovation, and the need to rapidly harness that technology in new operational concepts demands a sense of urgency and a like focus on getting our choices right,” he said.An important part of that effort, Kendall said, is ensuring that the United States can operate in, and defend space, calling the still nascent U.S. Space Force “a critical contributor to our national security. If confirmed, I’ll be honored to have a role in making it a success.”Also important, he said, is fully understanding and recognizing China’s rapid advances and ensuring that the Air and Space forces succeed in meeting them. “There is general consensus that China is the pacing threat,” Kendall said, using the term for defining a leading challenger to U.S. security.Across nearly three hours of a hearing that was both polite and relaxed, SASC Chairman, Sen. Jack Reed (D-R.I.), praised Kendall for having “a wealth of experience in aerospace and defense policy spanning several decades.” He also complimented Kendall for returning to public service after holding high-level positions in the Defense Department, most recently during the Obama administration.That experience is important, Reed said, noting that “if confirmed as Secretary of the Air Force, you will lead the service during a major transformation as we strengthen our ability to deal with near-peer competitors. In addition to balancing the size and modernization of the Air Force, you must also continue to implement guidance establishing a Space Force.“After two decades of high operating tempo and continuous overseas deployments, readiness remains a challenge,” Reed said. “The next secretary’s efforts in improving the force structure and support to our Airmen will be crucial.”Kendall’s session before the committee was his first formal appearance on Capitol Hill since being nominated last month by President Biden to be the Department of the Air Force’s highest-ranking civilian leader. He appeared alongside two other nominees for senior Department of Defense positions – Susanna Blume to be director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation for the Department and Heidi Shyu to be Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.
AFCEC earns 2020 Federal Energy and Water Management Awards	AFCEC earns 2020 Federal Energy and Water Management Awards
AFCEC earns 2020 Federal Energy and Water Management Awards	AFCEC earns 2020 Federal Energy and Water Management Awards
Program recently for its outstanding achievements and contributions in the areas of energy efficiency, resilience and technology achievement. 	Program recently for its outstanding achievements and contributions in the areas of energy efficiency, resilience and technology achievement. 
Program recently for its outstanding achievements and contributions in the areas of energy efficiency, resilience and technology achievement. 	Program recently for its outstanding achievements and contributions in the areas of energy efficiency, resilience and technology achievement. 
Program recently for its outstanding achievements and contributions in the areas of energy efficiency, resilience and technology achievement. 	Program recently for its outstanding achievements and contributions in the areas of energy efficiency, resilience and technology achievement. 
Program recently for its outstanding achievements and contributions in the areas of energy efficiency, resilience and technology achievement. 	Program recently for its outstanding achievements and contributions in the areas of energy efficiency, resilience and technology achievement. 
Program recently for its outstanding achievements and contributions in the areas of energy efficiency, resilience and technology achievement.	Program recently for its outstanding achievements and contributions in the areas of energy efficiency, resilience and technology achievement.Q and A Owner       COVID-19, the U.S. Air Force Academy Cadet Summer Program recently returned to the Air Force Civil Engineer Center’s Readiness Laboratory here. How do I start/stop my Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) contribution?
Program recently for its outstanding achievements and contributions in the areas of energy efficiency, resilience and technology achievement.	Program recently for its outstanding achievements and contributions in the areas of energy efficiency, resilience and technology achievement.
Program recently for its outstanding achievements and contributions in the areas of energy efficiency, resilience and technology achievement.	11Program recently for its outstanding achievements and contributions in the areas of energy efficiency, resilience and technology achievement.
100 CPTS Owner 16062021	100 CPTS Owner 16062021
100 CPTS Owner 16062021	100 CPTS Owner 16062021
(a) Agencies shall identify all executive fleet vehicles and determine if any arelarger than a midsize sedan (including Sport Utility Vehicles (SUVs) that are larger thanintermediate) or are not AFV. Executive fleet vehicles are vehicles used primarily totransport Senior Executives (Heads of Agencies, Senior Executive Service (SES)employees, and General Officers). 	Executive fleet vehicles that are larger than midsize sedans or are not AFVsmust be disclosed on the website of the agency operating the vehicles within 180 daysof the date of the memorandum (on or before November 17, 2011). The website mustbe publicly accessible, in a location that may be found using the search term "executivefleet vehicles". The data posted should include each vehicle's make, model, year ofmanufacture, fuel type, and the office to which the vehicle is assigned.
Primary duty responsibilities: I provide on-site AFCEC representation overseeing the $180 million repair of the primary runway at Little Rock AFB. My responsibilities include coordinating responses for contractor requests for information, technical review of submittals and direct collaboration with Title II services for inspection and supervision of construction operations. I strive to foster good communication within the project team and be proactive in addressing any problems early. My days are bookended by meetings with quality assurance inspectors in the morning and the quality control group in the evening to track and document daily contractor field activities to key stakeholders.	Primary duty responsibilities:
Q&A CPTS owner 	Q&A CPTS owner 
Q&A CPTS owner 	Q&A CPTS owner 
The Air Force 2020 budget request is approximately $165.6 billion dollars, a 6% increase from the FY 2019 request. Highlights: Our FY 2020 Operation and Maintenance (O&M) budget includes an over $4 billion dollar increase from the FY 2019 request. The baseline budget funds flying hours to the maximum executable level. To free Air Force pilots to perform other missions, we continue to expand our Adversary Air contract and prioritize Pacing Platforms in our Weapons System Sustainment portfolio, while maintaining overall high levels of WSS funding to achieve desired readiness gains.	The FY 2020 Military Personnel (MILPERS) funding continues our end-strength growth, further reducing critical gaps in our force. While Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve maintainers still face manning challenges, our FY20 budget continues end-strength growth by adding 4,400 Airmen growing the Total Force military end-strength to just over 510K military members. This request also provides funding to recruit, train and develop Airmen focused on leading in Multi-Domain Operations as part of the Joint and Combined Force. In particular, this budget targets shortfalls in nuclear defenders, intelligence specialists, special warfare Airmen and cyber warriors. This budget also builds on the progress to produce 1,480 pilots in 2020.
The Air Force 2020 budget request is approximately $165.6 billion dollars, a 6% increase from the FY 2019 request. Highlights: Our FY 2020 Operation and Maintenance (O&M) budget includes an over $4 billion dollar increase from the FY 2019 request. The baseline budget funds flying hours to the maximum executable level. To free Air Force pilots to perform other missions, we continue to expand our Adversary Air contract and prioritize Pacing Platforms in our Weapons System Sustainment portfolio, while maintaining overall high levels of WSS funding to achieve desired readiness gains.	The FY 2020 Military Personnel (MILPERS) funding continues our end-strength growth, further reducing critical gaps in our force. While Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve maintainers still face manning challenges, our FY20 budget continues end-strength growth by adding 4,400 Airmen growing the Total Force military end-strength to just over 510K military members. This request also provides funding to recruit, train and develop Airmen focused on leading in Multi-Domain Operations as part of the Joint and Combined Force. In particular, this budget targets shortfalls in nuclear defenders, intelligence specialists, special warfare Airmen and cyber warriors. This budget also builds on the progress to produce 1,480 pilots in 2020.
The Air Force 2020 budget request is approximately $165.6 billion dollars, a 6% increase from the FY 2019 request. Highlights: Our FY 2020 Operation and Maintenance (O&M) budget includes an over $4 billion dollar increase from the FY 2019 request. The baseline budget funds flying hours to the maximum executable level. To free Air Force pilots to perform other missions, we continue to expand our Adversary Air contract and prioritize Pacing Platforms in our Weapons System Sustainment portfolio, while maintaining overall high levels of WSS funding to achieve desired readiness gains.	The FY 2020 Military Personnel (MILPERS) funding continues our end-strength growth, further reducing critical gaps in our force. While Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve maintainers still face manning challenges, our FY20 budget continues end-strength growth by adding 4,400 Airmen growing the Total Force military end-strength to just over 510K military members. This request also provides funding to recruit, train and develop Airmen focused on leading in Multi-Domain Operations as part of the Joint and Combined Force. In particular, this budget targets shortfalls in nuclear defenders, intelligence specialists, special warfare Airmen and cyber warriors. This budget also builds on the progress to produce 1,480 pilots in 2020
The Air Force 2020 budget request is approximately $165.6 billion dollars, a 6% increase from the FY 2019 request. Highlights: Our FY 2020 Operation and Maintenance (O&M) budget includes an over $4 billion dollar increase from the FY 2019 request. The baseline budget funds flying hours to the maximum executable level. To free Air Force pilots to perform other missions, we continue to expand our Adversary Air contract and prioritize Pacing Platforms in our Weapons System Sustainment portfolio, while maintaining overall high levels of WSS funding to achieve desired readiness gains.	The FY 2020 Military Personnel (MILPERS) funding continues our end-strength growth, further reducing critical gaps in our force. While Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve maintainers still face manning challenges, our FY20 budget continues end-strength growth by adding 4,400 Airmen growing the Total Force military end-strength to just over 510K military members. This request also provides funding to recruit, train and develop Airmen focused on leading in Multi-Domain Operations as part of the Joint and Combined Force. In particular, this budget targets shortfalls in nuclear defenders, intelligence specialists, special warfare Airmen and cyber warriors. This budget also builds on the progress to produce 1,480 pilots in 2020
Mission of the Reporting Entity	The United States Air Force was created on September 18, 1947, by the National Security Act of 1947 and operates under the direction, authority, and control of the Secretary of the Air Force. The Air Force’s overall mission is to deliver sovereign options for the defense of the United States of America and its global interests to "Aim High…Fly, Fight, Win” in air, space, and cyberspace. The Air Force carries out its mission by adhering to a strategic framework of Core Values consisting of Integrity First, Service Before Self, and Excellence in All We Do. In addition, the Air Force is committed to providing Global Vigilance, Global Reach, and Global Power, while defending and protecting the United States.
The Air Force receives appropriations and funds as general, working capital (revolving), trust, special, and deposit funds. The Air Force uses these appropriations and funds to execute its missions and subsequently report on resource usage.	General funds are used for financial transactions funded by congressional appropriations, including personnel, operation and maintenance, research and development, procurement, and military construction.These general funds also include supplemental funds enacted by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (Recovery Act) of 2009. Details relating to Recovery Act appropriated funds are available online at http://www.defenselink.mil/recovery.Trust funds contain receipts and expenditures of funds held in trust by the government for use in carrying out specific purposes or programs in accordance with the terms of the donor, trust agreement, or statute. Special fund accounts are used to record government receipts reserved for a specific purpose. Certain trust and special funds may be designated as earmarked funds. Earmarked funds are financed by specifically identified revenues, required by statute to be used for designated activities, benefits or purposes, and remain available over time. The Air Force is required to separately account for and report on the receipt, use and retention of revenues and other financing sources for earmarked funds.Deposit funds are used to record amounts held temporarily until paid to the appropriate government or public entity. They are not Air Force funds, and as such, are not available for Air Force’s operations. The Air Force is acting as an agent or a custodian for funds awaiting distribution.
The Air Force’s financial management systems are unable to meet all full accrual accounting requirements. Many of the Air Force’s financial and nonfinancial feeder systems and processes were designed and implemented prior to the issuance of USGAAP. These systems were not designed to collect and record financial information on the full accrual accounting basis as required by USGAAP. Most of Air Force’s financial and nonfinancial legacy systems were designed to record information on a budgetary basis.	The Air Force's financial statements and supporting trial balances are compiled from the underlying financial data and trial balances of the Air Force's sub-entities. The underlying data is largely derived from budgetary transactions (obligations, disbursements, and collections), nonfinancial feeder systems, and accruals made for major items such as payroll expenses, accounts payable, and environmental liabilities. Some of the sub-entity level trial balances may reflect known abnormal balances resulting largely from business and system processes. At the consolidated Air Force level these abnormal balances may not be evident. Disclosures of abnormal balances are made in the applicable footnotes, but only to the extent that the abnormal balances are evident at the consolidated level.The DoD is determining the actions required to bring its financial and nonfinancial feeder systems and processes into compliance with USGAAP. One such action is the current revision of accounting systems to record transactions based on the U.S. Standard General Ledger (USSGL). Until all Air Force financial and nonfinancial feeder systems and processes are updated to collect and report financial information as required by USGAAP, Air Force’s financial data will be derived from budgetary transactions, data from nonfinancial feeder systems, and accruals.
The Air Force receives congressional appropriations as financing sources for general funds that expire annually, on a multi-year basis, or do not expire. When authorized by legislation, these appropriations are supplemented by revenues generated by sales of goods or services. 	The Air Force recognizes revenue as a result of costs incurred for goods and services provided to other federal agencies and the public. Full-cost pricing is Air Force’s standard policy for services provided as required by OMB Circular A-25, User Charges. The Air Force recognizes revenue when earned within the constraints of its current system capabilities. In some instances, revenue is recognized when bills are issued.The Air Force does not include nonmonetary support provided by U.S. allies for common defense and mutual security in amounts reported in the Statement of Net Cost and the Note 21, Reconciliation of Net Cost of Operations to Budget. The U.S. has cost sharing agreements with countries having a mutual or reciprocal defense agreement, where U.S. troops are stationed, or where the U.S. Fleet is in a port.
For financial reporting purposes, DoD policy requires the recognition of operating expenses in the period incurred. 	Current financial and nonfinancial feeder systems were not designed to collect and record financial information on the full accrual accounting basis. Estimates are made for major items such as payroll expenses, accounts payable, environmental liabilities, and unbilled revenue. Some accounts such as civilian pay, military pay, and accounts payable are presented on the accrual basis of accounting on the financial statements, as required by USGAAP.In the case of Operating Materials & Supplies (OM&S), operating expenses are generally recognized when the items are purchased. Efforts are underway to transition to the consumption method for recognizing OM&S expenses. Under the consumption method, OM&S would be expensed when consumed.Due to system limitations, in some instances expenditures for capital and other long-term assets may be recognized as operating expenses. The Air Force continues to implement process and system improvements to address these limitations.
70 ISR/FM Civpay Category Owner	70 ISR/FM Civpay Category Owner
70 ISR/FM Civpay Category Owner	70 ISR/FM Civpay Category Owner
70 ISR/FM CPTS Owner adding	70 ISR/FM CPTS Owner adding
70 ISR/FM CPTS Owner adding	70 ISR/FM CPTS Owner adding
70 ISR/FM CPTS Owner adding	70 ISR/FM CPTS Owner adding
70 ISR/FM CPTS Owner adding	70 ISR/FM CPTS Owner adding
70 ISR/FM CPTS Owner adding	70 ISR/FM CPTS Owner adding
ACC Majcom Owner adding	ACC Majcom Owner addingACC Majcom Owner adding
test?	Yes
What is AFRC?	Air Force Reserve Command
What is ANG?	Air National guards
What is CSP?	Comptroller Service Portal
What is RegAF?	Regular Air Force
I-WEPTAC examines fundamental installation and mission support (I&MS) challenges to identify deficiencies, shortfalls and developmental gaps that limit the Air Force's and Space Force’s ability to execute and operate efficiently. I-WEPTAC is charged with developing executable courses of action and recommending solutions while providing valuable information to senior leaders. Subsequently, these studies serve to enhance the agility and lethality of Air Force and Space Force combat support operations worldwide.	I-WEPTAC examines fundamental installation and mission support (I&MS) challenges to identify deficiencies, shortfalls and developmental gaps that limit the Air Force's and Space Force’s ability to execute and operate efficiently. I-WEPTAC is charged with developing executable courses of action and recommending solutions while providing valuable information to senior leaders. Subsequently, these studies serve to enhance the agility and lethality of Air Force and Space Force combat support operations worldwide.
I-WEPTAC examines fundamental installation and mission support (I&MS) challenges to identify deficiencies, shortfalls and developmental gaps that limit the Air Force's and Space Force’s ability to execute and operate efficiently. I-WEPTAC is charged with developing executable courses of action and recommending solutions while providing valuable information to senior leaders. Subsequently, these studies serve to enhance the agility and lethality of Air Force and Space Force combat support operations worldwide.	I-WEPTAC examines fundamental installation and mission support (I&MS) challenges to identify deficiencies, shortfalls and developmental gaps that limit the Air Force's and Space Force’s ability to execute and operate efficiently. I-WEPTAC is charged with developing executable courses of action and recommending solutions while providing valuable information to senior leaders. Subsequently, these studies serve to enhance the agility and lethality of Air Force and Space Force combat support operations worldwide.
I-WEPTAC examines fundamental installation and mission support (I&MS) challenges to identify deficiencies, shortfalls and developmental gaps that limit the Air Force's and Space Force’s ability to execute and operate efficiently. I-WEPTAC is charged with developing executable courses of action and recommending solutions while providing valuable information to senior leaders. Subsequently, these studies serve to enhance the agility and lethality of Air Force and Space Force combat support operations worldwide.	I-WEPTAC examines fundamental installation and mission support (I&MS) challenges to identify deficiencies, shortfalls and developmental gaps that limit the Air Force's and Space Force’s ability to execute and operate efficiently. I-WEPTAC is charged with developing executable courses of action and recommending solutions while providing valuable information to senior leaders. Subsequently, these studies serve to enhance the agility and lethality of Air Force and Space Force combat support operations worldwide.
Aviation Career Incentive Pay (ACIP) / Hazardous Duty Incentive Pay (HDIP)?	Aviation Career Incentive Pay (ACIP) / Hazardous Duty Incentive Pay (HDIP)
Comptroller Squadron at Hanscom Air Force Bas	The 66th Comptroller Squadron at Hanscom Air Force Base, Mass., support finance customers through the Air Force Comptroller Services Portal. Customers can submit, track, and review queries through the portal and will be notified every time a technician works their request. (U.S. Air Force graphic by Lauren Russell)
The 66th Comptroller Squadron at Hanscom Air Force Base, Mass., support finance customers through the Air Force Comptroller Services Portal. Customers can submit, track, and review queries through the portal and will be notified every time a technician works their request. (U.S. Air Force graphic by Lauren Russell 	The 66th Comptroller Squadron at Hanscom Air Force Base, Mass., support finance customers through the Air Force Comptroller Services Portal. Customers can submit, track, and review queries
The 66th Comptroller Squadron at Hanscom Air Force Base, Mass., support finance customers through the Air Force Comptroller Services Portal. Customers can submit, track, and review queries through the portal and will be notified every time a technician works their request. (U.S. Air Force graphic by Lauren Russell)	The 66th Comptroller Squadron at Hanscom Air Force Base, Mass., support finance customers through the Air Force Comptroller Services Portal. Customers can submit, track, and review queries through the portal and will be notified every time a technician works their request. (U.S. Air Force graphic by Lauren Russell)
Comptroller Squadron	Comptroller Squadron
The 66th Comptroller Squadron at Hanscom Air Force Base, Mass., support finance customers through the Air Force Comptroller Services Portal. Customers can submit, track, and review queries through the portal and will be notified every time a technician works their request. (U.S. Air Force graphic by Lauren Russell)	The 66th Comptroller Squadron at Hanscom Air Force Base, Mass., support finance customers through the Air Force Comptroller Services Portal. Customers can submit, track, and review queries through the portal and will be notified every time a technician works their request. (U.S. Air Force graphic by Lauren Russell)
The 66th Comptroller Squadron at Hanscom Air Force Base, Mass., support finance customers through the Air Force Comptroller Services Portal. Customers can submit, track, and review queries through the portal and will be notified every time a technician works their request. (U.S. Air Force graphic by Lauren Russell)	The 66th Comptroller Squadron at Hanscom Air Force Base, Mass., support finance customers through the Air Force Comptroller Services Portal. Customers can submit, track, and review queries through the portal and will be notified every time a technician works their request. (U.S. Air Force graphic by Lauren Russell)
Reference 3.a. establishes a DOD SLOA and directs updates to the SFIS. This memorandum also directs efforts to improve financial information, improve ....	Reference 3.a. establishes a DOD SLOA and directs updates to the SFIS. This memorandum also directs efforts to improve financial information, improve ....
The Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center, headquartered at Joint Base San Antonio, Texas, is one of six centers aligned under Air Force Materiel Command for the United States Air Force	AIR NATIONAL GUARD
The 66th Comptroller Squadron at Hanscom Air Force Base, Mass., support finance customers through the Air Force Comptroller Services Portal. Customer..	The 66th Comptroller Squadron at Hanscom Air Force Base, Mass., support finance customers through the Air Force Comptroller Services Portal. Customer..
The 66th Comptroller Squadron at Hanscom Air Force Base, Mass., support finance customers through the Air Force Comptroller Services Portal. Customer..	The 66th Comptroller Squadron at Hanscom Air Force Base, Mass., support finance customers through the Air Force Comptroller Services Portal. Customer..
The 66th Comptroller Squadron at Hanscom Air Force Base, Mass., support finance customers through the Air Force Comptroller Services Portal. Customer..	The 66th Comptroller Squadron at Hanscom Air Force Base, Mass., support finance customers through the Air Force Comptroller Services Portal. Customer..
The 66th Comptroller Squadron at Hanscom Air Force Base, Mass., support finance customers through the Air Force Comptroller Services Portal. Customer..	The 66th Comptroller Squadron at Hanscom Air Force Base, Mass., support finance customers through the Air Force Comptroller Services Portal. Customer..
The 66th Comptroller Squadron at Hanscom Air Force Base, Mass., support finance customers through the Air Force Comptroller Services Portal. Customer..	The 66th Comptroller Squadron at Hanscom Air Force Base, Mass., support finance customers through the Air Force Comptroller Services Portal. Customer..
The 66th Comptroller Squadron at Hanscom Air Force Base, Mass., support finance customers through the Air Force Comptroller Services Portal. Customer..	The 66th Comptroller Squadron at Hanscom Air Force Base, Mass., support finance customers through the Air Force Comptroller Services Portal. Customer..
The 66th Comptroller Squadron at Hanscom Air Force Base, Mass., support finance customers through the Air Force Comptroller Services Portal. Customer..	The 66th Comptroller Squadron at Hanscom Air Force Base, Mass., support finance customers through the Air Force Comptroller Services Portal. Customer..
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.	The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. 
AFRC Accounting Category Q&A	AFRC Accounting Category Q&A
The Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center’s annual Installation and Mission Support Weapons and Tactics Conference, known as I-WEPTAC	The Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center’s annual Installation and Mission Support Weapons and Tactics Conference, known as I-WEPTAC
The Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center’s annual Installation and Mission Support Weapons and Tactics Conference, known as I-WEPTAC, wa....	The Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center’s annual Installation and Mission Support Weapons and Tactics Conference, known as I-WEPTAC, wa....
The Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center’s annual Installation and Mission Support Weapons and Tactics Conference, known as I-WEPTAC, wa....	The Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center’s annual Installation and Mission Support Weapons and Tactics Conference, known as I-WEPTAC, wa....
The Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center’s annual Installation and Mission Support Weapons and Tactics Conference, known as I-WEPTAC, wa....	The Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center’s annual Installation and Mission Support Weapons and Tactics Conference, known as I-WEPTAC, wa....
AFRC	AFRC
AFIMSC	AFIMSC
AFIMSC	AFIMSC
AFIMSC	AFIMSC
Members who are unable to use leave due to military necessity may accumulate a maximum of 75 days by the end of a fiscal year until 30 Sep 2015. After this date, the limit will return to the previous 60 day limit of accrued leave. In the event service members are unable to use their excess accrued leave prior to 30 September due to mission requirements, approval may be requested to carryover the excess leave days (Special Leave Accrual). Direct questions regarding leave to the local Force Support Squadron.	Members who are unable to use leave due to military necessity may accumulate a maximum of 75 days by the end of a fiscal year until 30 Sep 2015. After this date, the limit will return to the previous 60 day limit of accrued leave. In the event service members are unable to use their excess accrued leave prior to 30 September due to mission requirements, approval may be requested to carryover the excess leave days (Special Leave Accrual). Direct questions regarding leave to the local Force Support Squadron.
Members who are unable to use leave due to military necessity may accumulate a maximum of 75 days by the end of a fiscal year until 30 Sep 2015. After this date, the limit will return to the previous 60 day limit of accrued leave. In the event service members are unable to use their excess accrued leave prior to 30 September due to mission requirements, approval may be requested to carryover the excess leave days (Special Leave Accrual). Direct questions regarding leave to the local Force Support Squadron.	Members who are unable to use leave due to military necessity may accumulate a maximum of 75 days by the end of a fiscal year until 30 Sep 2015. After this date, the limit will return to the previous 60 day limit of accrued leave. In the event service members are unable to use their excess accrued leave prior to 30 September due to mission requirements, approval may be requested to carryover the excess leave days (Special Leave Accrual). Direct questions regarding leave to the local Force Support Squadron.
The Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center’s annual Installation and Mission Support Weapons and Tactics Conference, known as I-WEPTAC, wa..	The Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center’s annual Installation and Mission Support Weapons and Tactics Conference, known as I-WEPTAC, wa..
First tested in a lab environment at AFSFC, DVES proved to be “the innovative, no-cost solution we needed,” Goodman said. “Using existing capabilities of the Defense Biometric Identification System with DVES and the pre-enrollment web site significantly reduces the need for visitors to physically enter a brick-and-mortar facility. That can reduce manpower requirements at visitor control centers and get passes into the hands of the visitors more expediently and efficiently.”Beginning in October 2020, the Air National Guard’s Ellington Field, Texas, Joint Base San Antonio-Randolph, Texas, Nellis Air Force Base, Nevada, and Tyndall AFB, Florida, conducted 90-day field test to capture data from bases with significantly different visitor pass procedures.All locations rep	First tested in a lab environment at AFSFC, DVES proved to be “the innovative, no-cost solution we needed,” Goodman said. “Using existing capabilities of the Defense Biometric Identification System with DVES and the pre-enrollment web site significantly reduces the need for visitors to physically enter a brick-and-mortar facility. That can reduce manpower requirements at visitor control centers and get passes into the hands of the visitors more expediently and efficiently.”Beginning in October 2020, the Air National Guard’s Ellington Field, Texas, Joint Base San Antonio-Randolph, Texas, Nellis Air Force Base, Nevada, and Tyndall AFB, Florida, conducted 90-day field test to capture data from bases with significantly different visitor pass procedures.All locations rep
Category owner after build	Category owner after build
CPTS owner after build	CPTS owner after build
MAJCOM Owner after build 	MAJCOM Owner after build 
Category owner after build 3	Category owner after build 3
CPTS owner after build 3	CPTS owner after build 3
f	f
The Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center, headquartered at Joint Base San Antonio, Texas, is one of six centers aligned under Air Force Materiel Command for the United States Air Force	The Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center, headquartered at Joint Base San Antonio, Texas, is one of six centers aligned under Air Force Materiel Command for the United States Air Force
JOINT BASE SAN-ANTONIO-LACKLAND, Texas -- The Department of the Air Force expanded its Employee Assistance Program Oct. 1, following a recent contract award by the Air Force Installation and Contracting Center.The program, required by the Air Force Chief of Staff, provides a variety of services and support to DAF civilian employees and their	JOINT BASE SAN-ANTONIO-LACKLAND, Texas -- The Department of the Air Force expanded its Employee Assistance Program Oct. 1, following a recent contract award by the Air Force Installation and Contracting Center.The program, required by the Air Force Chief of Staff, provides a variety of services and support to DAF civilian employees and theirJOINT BASE SAN-ANTONIO-LACKLAND, Texas -- The Department of the Air Force expanded its Employee Assistance Program Oct. 1, following a recent contract award by the Air Force Installation and Contracting Center.The program, required by the Air Force Chief of Staff, provides a variety of services and support to DAF civilian employees and their
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.	The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.	The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.
Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team bu..	 Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team bu..
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.	The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.
Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 	Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 
Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 	Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 
Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 	Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 
Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 	Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 
Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 	Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 
Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 	Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 
Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 	Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 
Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 	Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 
Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 	Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 
Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 	Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 
Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 	Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.	The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Strategy. This goal is putting plans in place so AFIMSC can better advocate for infrastructure funding, effectively spend the resources we get and ensure bases spend their resources effectively in line with the Infrastructure Investment Strategy.
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Str..	The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Str..
Created in 1907 as a functional component of the United States (U.S.) Army, the U.S. Air Force (the “Air Force,”“we,” “us,” and “our”) is the youngest branch of the U.S. Armed Forces. The Department of the Air Force was thenestablished 40 years later, becoming one of three military departments within the Department of Defense (DoD). TheAir Force is a military service branch organized within the DoD.Our mission is to fly, fight, and win... in air, space, and cyberspace. To achieve that mission, the Air Force has avision: The United States Air Force will be a trusted and reliable joint partner with our sister services known for integrityin all of our activities, including supporting the joint mission first and foremost. We will provide compelling air, space,and cyber capabilities for use by the combatant commanders. We will excel as stewards of all Air Force resources inservice to the American people, while providing precise and reliable Global Vigilance, Reach and Power for the nation.	Created in 1907 as a functional component of the United States (U.S.) Army, the U.S. Air Force (the “Air Force,”“we,” “us,” and “our”) is the youngest branch of the U.S. Armed Forces. The Department of the Air Force was thenestablished 40 years later, becoming one of three military departments within the Department of Defense (DoD). TheAir Force is a military service branch organized within the DoD.Our mission is to fly, fight, and win... in air, space, and cyberspace. To achieve that mission, the Air Force has avision: The United States Air Force will be a trusted and reliable joint partner with our sister services known for integrityin all of our activities, including supporting the joint mission first and foremost. We will provide compelling air, space,and cyber capabilities for use by the combatant commanders. We will excel as stewards of all Air Force resources inservice to the American people, while providing precise and reliable Global Vigilance, Reach and Power for the nation.
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Str..	The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Str..
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Str..	The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Str..
The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Str..	The Air Force must slow down or halt the degradation in the most critical infrastructure assets based on their importance to the National Defense Str..
A top AFIMSC priority is Airmen readiness, which relies on dynamic programs and funding to produce highly trained and mission-ready Airmen. This goal will prioritize training funding to reduce gaps and prevent bases from making high-risk choices that leave the Air Force vulnerable.	A top AFIMSC priority is Airmen readiness, which relies on dynamic programs and funding to produce highly trained and mission-ready Airmen. This goal will prioritize training funding to reduce gaps and prevent bases from making high-risk choices that leave the Air Force vulnerable.
A top AFIMSC priority is Airmen readiness, which relies on dynamic programs and funding to produce highly trained and mission-ready Airmen. This goal will prioritize training funding to reduce gaps and prevent bases from making high-risk choices that leave the Air Force vulnerable.	A top AFIMSC priority is Airmen readiness, which relies on dynamic programs and funding to produce highly trained and mission-ready Airmen. This goal will prioritize training funding to reduce gaps and prevent bases from making high-risk choices that leave the Air Force vulnerable.
A top AFIMSC priority is Airmen readiness, which relies on dynamic programs and funding to produce highly trained and mission-ready Airmen. This goal will prioritize training funding to reduce gaps and prevent bases from making high-risk choices that leave the Air Force vulnerable.	A top AFIMSC priority is Airmen readiness, which relies on dynamic programs and funding to produce highly trained and mission-ready Airmen. This goal will prioritize training funding to reduce gaps and prevent bases from making high-risk choices that leave the Air Force vulnerable.
A top AFIMSC priority is Airmen readiness, which relies on dynamic programs and funding to produce highly trained and mission-ready Airmen. This goal will prioritize training funding to reduce gaps and prevent bases from making high-risk choices that leave the Air Force vulnerable.	A top AFIMSC priority is Airmen readiness, which relies on dynamic programs and funding to produce highly trained and mission-ready Airmen. This goal will prioritize training funding to reduce gaps and prevent bases from making high-risk choices that leave the Air Force vulnerable.
Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 	Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 
Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 	Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 
Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 	Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. 
Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 	Delivering lethality and readiness requires combat-ready forces and infrastructure that enable successful mission accomplishment. The AFIMSC team builds and maintains the platforms from which the Air Force operates in air and space. Increasing lethality and readiness is at the heart of what we do every day so that the Air Force can defend, deter, fight and win wars. 
In FY 2004, Air Force active duty members, Air National Guardsmen, Reservists, and civilians responded to unprecedented challenges with unprecedented performance.Calling upon the Air Force Core Values of “Integrity First –Service Before Self – Excellence In All That We Do,” Air Force people proved time and time again that they comprise the preeminent air and space power on the planet.The integrated components of our Air and Space Expeditionary Force were involved in operations including major theater war, homeland security, and humanitarian relief. Air Force people and organizations operated with unprecedented effectiveness and efficiency, all while constantly preparing to face the challenges of the future.	Major Commands, Direct Reporting Units, Field Operating AgenciesThe Air Force is organizationally aligned into 9 Major Commands (MAJCOMs, including the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard), with 13 Field Operating Agencies(FOAs), and four Direct Reporting Units (DRUs). Major Command (MAJCOM) MAJCOM is a major subdivision of the Air Force, directly subordinate to Headquarters US Air Force. MAJCOM headquarters are management headquarters and thus havethe full range of functional staff. Examples of MAJCOMs are Air Combat Command (ACC), Air Education and Training Command (AETC), and Air Force MaterielCommand (AFMC).
DRU is a subdivision of the Air Force, directly subordinate to the Chief of Staff, US Air Force. A DRU performs a mission that does not fit into any of the MAJCOMs. A DRUhas many of the same administrative and organizational responsibilities as a MAJCOM. Examples of DRUs are the Air Force Academy (USAFA), the Air Force Studies andAnalysis Agency (AFSAA), and the Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center (AFOTEC).	DRU is a subdivision of the Air Force, directly subordinate to the Chief of Staff, US Air Force. A DRU performs a mission that does not fit into any of the MAJCOMs. A DRUhas many of the same administrative and organizational responsibilities as a MAJCOM. Examples of DRUs are the Air Force Academy (USAFA), the Air Force Studies andAnalysis Agency (AFSAA), and the Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center (AFOTEC).
FOA is the sub division of the Air Force, directly subordinate to a headquarters US Air Force functional manager. An FOA performs field activities beyond the scope of any of the major commands. The activities are specialized or associate with an Air Force-wide mission and do not include functions performed in management headquarters	  FOA is the sub division of the Air Force, directly subordinate to a headquarters US Air Force functional manager. An FOA performs field activities beyond the scope of any of the major commands
MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.	MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.
MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.	MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.
MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.	MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.
MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.	MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.
MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.	MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.
MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.	MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.
On the final day of the quarterfinal round, the panel evaluated 29 ideas nominated by U.S. Air Force major commands and U.S. Space Force field commands, plus four at-large “wildcard” submissions. The wildcards were selected by Guardians and Airmen who cast nearly 17,000 ballots in pairwise voting conducted over the last two weeks of October through the Guardians and Airmen Innovation Network platform.	On the final day of the quarterfinal round, the panel evaluated 29 ideas nominated by U.S. Air Force major commands and U.S. Space Force field commands, plus four at-large “wildcard” submissions. The wildcards were selected by Guardians and Airmen who cast nearly 17,000 ballots in pairwise voting conducted over the last two weeks of October through the Guardians and Airmen Innovation Network platform.
MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.1	MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.1
MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.	MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.
Login to the Air Force Portal, in the Search bar, type “AFPC Secure”, then log into AFPC Secure. Select PASCodes. Search by: “All Records,” Sort By: “PAS CODE,” and select a Duty Type: “ALL” and click “Submit.” Click on any PAS Code listed in the “PAS Code” column. Select “Custom Report” and click “Submit.” Click in box to the left of “ADSN” and click “Submit.” Click “ADSN” column title to sort by ADSN. Scroll down the list to find your installations servicing FMF ADSN. Copy all records with the same ADSN as the servicing FMF and paste them into an Excel spreadsheet.	PAS Code Collection. Login to the Air Force Portal, in the Search bar, type “AFPC Secure”, then log into AFPC Secure. Select PASCodes. Search by: “All Records,” Sort By: “PAS CODE,” and select a Duty Type: “ALL” and click “Submit.” Click on any PAS Code listed in the “PAS Code” column. Select “Custom Report” and click “Submit.” Click in box to the left of “ADSN” and click “Submit.” Click “ADSN” column title to sort by ADSN. Scroll down the list to find your installations servicing FMF ADSN. Copy all records with the same ADSN as the servicing FMF and paste them into an Excel spreadsheet.
MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.https://ideaentity.sharepoint.com/teams/SAFFMCSP/CSPPortalTest/SitePages/settings.aspx	MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs
The Air National Guard has both a federal and state mission. The dual mission, a provision of the U. S. Constitution, results in each guardsman holding membership in the National Guard of his or her state and in the National Guard of the United States.Federal Mission: Maintain well-trained, well-equipped units available for prompt mobilization during war and provide assistance during national emergencies, such as natural disasters or civil disturbances. During peace, the combat-ready units and support units are assigned to Air Force major commands to carry out missions compatible with training, mobilization readiness, humanitarian and contingency operations. ANG provides almost half of the Air Force’s tactical airlift support, combat communications functions, aeromedical evacuation and aerial refueling. In addition, ANG has total responsibility for air defense of the entire United States.	The Air National Guard has both a federal and state mission. The dual mission, a provision of the U. S. Constitution, results in each guardsman holding membership in the National Guard of his or her state and in the National Guard of the United States.Federal Mission: Maintain well-trained, well-equipped units available for prompt mobilization during war and provide assistance during national emergencies, such as natural disasters or civil disturbances. During peace, the combat-ready units and support units are assigned to Air Force major commands to carry out missions compatible with training, mobilization readiness, humanitarian and contingency operations. ANG provides almost half of the Air Force’s tactical airlift support, combat communications functions, aeromedical evacuation and aerial refueling. In addition, ANG has total responsibility for air defense of the entire United States.
MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.	MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.
MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.	MyVector is one of the many tools Airmen and Guardians can use to enhance their career development, including tracking personal development and assignments, writing performance evaluations, and connecting with mentors as well as mentoring others.Last summer, the Secretary of the Air Force stood up the Diversity and Inclusion task force to address the issue of racial, ethnic and other demographic disparities and their impact on the forces. The task force identified MyVector’s mentorship platform as an area that could help expand diversity efforts. Having more specific filters, such as race, ethnicity and disability, allows Airmen and Guardians to better tailor searches to their specific needs.
The Air Force Civil Engineer Center, headquartered at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland, Texas, provides responsive, flexible civil engineering expertise and support to Air Force installations and the warfighter. The AFCEC mantra is “brilliant at the basics,” and the AFCEC team delivers capabilities across the wide civil engineering spectrum to enable ready engineers and maintain the facilities and platforms that are the backbone of the Air Force mission.	The Air Force Civil Engineer Center, headquartered at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland, Texas, provides responsive, flexible civil engineering expertise and support to Air Force installations and the warfighter. The AFCEC mantra is “brilliant at the basics,” and the AFCEC team delivers capabilities across the wide civil engineering spectrum to enable ready engineers and maintain the facilities and platforms that are the backbone of the Air Force mission.
The Air Force Civil Engineer Center, headquartered at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland, Texas, provides responsive, flexible civil engineering expertise and support to Air Force installations and the warfighter. The AFCEC mantra is “brilliant at the basics,” and the AFCEC team delivers capabilities across the wide civil engineering spectrum to enable ready engineers and maintain the facilities and platforms that are the backbone of the Air Force mission.	The Air Force Civil Engineer Center, headquartered at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland, Texas, provides responsive, flexible civil engineering expertise and support to Air Force installations and the warfighter. The AFCEC mantra is “brilliant at the basics,” and the AFCEC team delivers capabilities across the wide civil engineering spectrum to enable ready engineers and maintain the facilities and platforms that are the backbone of the Air Force mission.
SAFFMB Owner	SAFFMB Owner
Led by a one-star general, AFCEC missions include facility investment planning, design and construction, operations support, real property management, energy support, environmental compliance and restoration, readiness and emergency management, and audit assertions, acquisition and program management. 	Led by a one-star general, AFCEC missions include facility investment planning, design and construction, operations support, real property management, energy support, environmental compliance and restoration, readiness and emergency management, and audit assertions, acquisition and program management. 
Led by a one-star general, AFCEC missions include facility investment planning, design and construction, operations support, real property management, energy support, environmental compliance and restoration, readiness and emergency management, and audit assertions, acquisition and program management. 	Led by a one-star general, AFCEC missions include facility investment planning, design and construction, operations support, real property management, energy support, environmental compliance and restoration, readiness and emergency management, and audit assertions, acquisition and program management. 
Interfund detail billing records are grouped together by sellers according to the buyer’s fund code in the Summary Billing Record,	Interfund detail billing records are grouped together by sellers according to the buyer’s fund code in the Summary Billing Record,
The Air Force Civil Engineer Center, headquartered at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland, Texas, provides responsive, flexible civil engineering expertise and support to Air Force installations and the warfighter. The AFCEC mantra is “brilliant at the basics,” and the AFCEC team delivers capabilities across the wide civil engineering spectrum to enable ready engineers and maintain the facilities and platforms that are the backbone of the Air Force mission.	The Air Force Civil Engineer Center, headquartered at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland, Texas, provides responsive, flexible civil engineering expertise and support to Air Force installations and the warfighter. The AFCEC mantra is “brilliant at the basics,” and the AFCEC team delivers capabilities across the wide civil engineering spectrum to enable ready engineers and maintain the facilities and platforms that are the backbone of the Air Force mission.
The Air Force Civil Engineer Center, headquartered at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland, Texas, provides responsive, flexible civil engineering expertise and support to Air Force installations and the warfighter. The AFCEC mantra is “brilliant at the basics,” and the AFCEC team delivers capabilities across the wide civil engineering spectrum to enable ready engineers and maintain the facilities and platforms that are the backbone of the Air Force mission.	The Air Force Civil Engineer Center, headquartered at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland, Texas, provides responsive, flexible civil engineering expertise and support to Air Force installations and the warfighter. The AFCEC mantra is “brilliant at the basics,” and the AFCEC team delivers capabilities across the wide civil engineering spectrum to enable ready engineers and maintain the facilities and platforms that are the backbone of the Air Force mission.
The Air Force Civil Engineer Center, headquartered at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland, Texas, provides responsive, flexible civil engineering expertise and support to Air Force installations and the warfighter. The AFCEC mantra is “brilliant at the basics,” and the AFCEC team delivers capabilities across the wide civil engineering spectrum to enable ready engineers and maintain the facilities and platforms that are the backbone of the Air Force mission.	The Air Force Civil Engineer Center, headquartered at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland, Texas, provides responsive, flexible civil engineering expertise and support to Air Force installations and the warfighter. The AFCEC mantra is “brilliant at the basics,” and the AFCEC team delivers capabilities across the wide civil engineering spectrum to enable ready engineers and maintain the facilities and platforms that are the backbone of the Air Force mission.
AFSFC enables missions by providing SF functional implementation guidance for headquarters Air Force Security Forces policy and standards for force providers and operational commanders. AFSFC identifies and evaluates SF functional requirements and develops exercise plans, as appropriate. AFSFC represents the SF career field and informs the AFIMSC plans and programming process of SF functionally-prioritized requirements.	AFSFC enables missions by providing SF functional implementation guidance for headquarters Air Force Security Forces policy and standards for force providers and operational commanders. AFSFC identifies and evaluates SF functional requirements and develops exercise plans, as appropriate. AFSFC represents the SF career field and informs the AFIMSC plans and programming process of SF functionally-prioritized requirements.
Team Beale’s 9th Force Support Squadron recently announced the expansion of food and beverage operations with the opening of the Dragon’s Lair Food, Life, You-FLY flight line kiosk.Beale partnered with multiple agencies across the Air Force and installation, including the Air Force Services Center's Food and Beverage Division, the Air Force Civil Engineer Center, the A4/7 Directorate, the 9th Civil Engineer Squadron and the 9th Contracting Squadron, to develop this new concept of bringing food closer to the flight line complex where a majority of hungry customers work. “Beale is excited to continue to exceed our customers’ expectations and increase food and beverage offerings across the installation”, said James Buck, 9th FSS deputy to the commander. “This has been a labor of love and huge support across the wing from CE, CONS, COMM and my entire FSS team and of course AFSVC and (Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center) back in San Antonio.”	Team Beale’s 9th Force Support Squadron recently announced the expansion of food and beverage operations with the opening of the Dragon’s Lair Food, Life, You-FLY flight line kiosk.Beale partnered with multiple agencies across the Air Force and installation, including the Air Force Services Center's Food and Beverage Division, the Air Force Civil Engineer Center, the A4/7 Directorate, the 9th Civil Engineer Squadron and the 9th Contracting Squadron, to develop this new concept of bringing food closer to the flight line complex where a majority of hungry customers work. “Beale is excited to continue to exceed our customers’ expectations and increase food and beverage offerings across the installation”, said James Buck, 9th FSS deputy to the commander. “This has been a labor of love and huge support across the wing from CE, CONS, COMM and my entire FSS team and of course AFSVC and (Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center) back in San Antonio.”
Login to the Air Force Portal, in the Search bar, type “AFPC Secure”, then log into AFPC Secure. Select PASCodes. Search by: “All Records,” Sort By: “PAS CODE,” and select a Duty Type: “ALL” and click “Submit.” Click on any PAS Code listed in the “PAS Code” column. Select “Custom Report” and click “Submit.” Click in box to the left of “ADSN” and click “Submit.” Click “ADSN” column title to sort by ADSN. Scroll down the list to find your installations servicing FMF ADSN. Copy all records with the same ADSN as the servicing FMF and paste them into an Excel spreadsheet.	PAS Code Collection. Login to the Air Force Portal, in the Search bar, type “AFPC Secure”, then log into AFPC Secure. Select PASCodes. Search by: “All Records,” Sort By: “PAS CODE,” and select a Duty Type: “ALL” and click “Submit.” Click on any PAS Code listed in the “PAS Code” column. Select “Custom Report” and click “Submit.” Click in box to the left of “ADSN” and click “Submit.” Click “ADSN” column title to sort by ADSN. Scroll down the list to find your installations servicing FMF ADSN. Copy all records with the same ADSN as the servicing FMF and paste them into an Excel spreadsheet.
Variations in itinerary will not be included when publishing orders after travel is completed, as the itinerary is finalized (T-1). Instead, include specific known dates and travel locations. Confirmatory travel orders must include the following statement: "Submit a travel voucher within 5 workdays after receipt of order (if travel is completed before orders are published) or after travel completion (if orders are published before travel is completed)." (T-1) An example of a composed confirmatory travel order body follows: “The verbal orders of the Commander, Headquarters AFMC, Wright-Patterson AFB OH, 1 Jun 17, directing SMSgt DAVID AKEMON, 123-45-6789, Headquarters AFMC/IGA, this station, to proceed on 1 Jun 17 from Wright-Patterson AFB OH to Edwards AFB CA on TDY for 5 days to perform tests in connection with aircraft stress testing and to return to Wright-Patterson AFB OH, are confirmed. Circumstances prevented written orders in advance. (SITE VISIT). Submit a travel voucher within 5 workdays after orders receipt.”	Variations in itinerary will not be included when publishing orders after travel is completed, as the itinerary is finalized (T-1). Instead, include specific known dates and travel locations. Confirmatory travel orders must include the following statement: "Submit a travel voucher within 5 workdays after receipt of order (if travel is completed before orders are published) or after travel completion (if orders are published before travel is completed)." (T-1) An example of a composed confirmatory travel order body follows: “The verbal orders of the Commander, Headquarters AFMC, Wright-Patterson AFB OH, 1 Jun 17, directing SMSgt DAVID AKEMON, 123-45-6789, Headquarters AFMC/IGA, this station, to proceed on 1 Jun 17 from Wright-Patterson AFB OH to Edwards AFB CA on TDY for 5 days to perform tests in connection with aircraft stress testing and to return to Wright-Patterson AFB OH, are confirmed. Circumstances prevented written orders in advance. (SITE VISIT). Submit a travel voucher within 5 workdays after orders receipt.”
This change adds discrete SLOA/Accounting Classification data elements to logistics transactions with financial implications to implement SLOA within DLMS. This is the first in a series of anticipated DLMS changes to accommodate SLOA requirements in logistics domain processes. This change also modifies X12 FA1 segment Qualifier DF for clarification. A focused Joint Finance/Supply PRC on June 20, 2013 addressed Proposed DLMS Change (PDC) 1043 (Reference 3. i.) to gain resolution of open items. Resolution of staffing notes from PDC 1043 are addressed with each staffing note. Resolution of comments submitted during staffing is at Enclosure 7.Significant changes from PDC 1043 are highlighted in green.	This change adds discrete SLOA/Accounting Classification data elements to logistics transactions with financial implications to implement SLOA within DLMS. This is the first in a series of anticipated DLMS changes to accommodate SLOA requirements in logistics domain processes. This change also modifies X12 FA1 segment Qualifier DF for clarification. A focused Joint Finance/Supply PRC on June 20, 2013 addressed Proposed DLMS Change (PDC) 1043 (Reference 3. i.) to gain resolution of open items. Resolution of staffing notes from PDC 1043 are addressed with each staffing note. Resolution of comments submitted during staffing is at Enclosure 7.Significant changes from PDC 1043 are highlighted in green.
Q and A with CPTS owner - RAF	Q and A with CPTS owner - RAF
Q and A with Category Owner - Milpay	v
As one of only 11 female two-star general officers currently serving on active duty in the Department of the Air Force, Maj. Gen. C. McCauley von Hoffman is no stranger to being the sole woman among her peers. In fact, during the early years of her nearly 33-year Air Force career, von Hoffman was often the only female officer in her unit and field. Women’s History Month is an opportunity to share stories of the past and celebrate the achievements of individuals who operated outside of societal norms and achieved success, setting the stage for future generations to follow. Von Hoffman is the director of Logistics, Civil Engineering, Force Protection and Nuclear Integrat	As one of only 11 female two-star general officers currently serving on active duty in the Department of the Air Force, Maj. Gen. C. McCauley von Hoffman is no stranger to being the sole woman among her peers. In fact, during the early years of her nearly 33-year Air Force career, von Hoffman was often the only female officer in her unit and field. Women’s History Month is an opportunity to share stories of the past and celebrate the achievements of individuals who operated outside of societal norms and achieved success, setting the stage for future generations to follow. Von Hoffman is the director of Logistics, Civil Engineering, Force Protection and Nuclear Integrat
CPTS Owner AFRC	CPTS Owner AFRC
Quick links	Quick links
Category owner 502 CPTS Budget	Category owner 502 CPTS Budget
4/11/2022 - 001	4/11/2022 - 001
4/11/2022 - 002	4/11/2022 - 002
MAJCOM Owner - 4/13/2022 - 0011	MAJCOM Owner - 4/13/2022 - 0011
AFIMSC Owner Travel pay	AFIMSC Owner Travel pay
AFIMSC Owner Military pay 	AFIMSC Owner Military pay 
AFIMSC Owner Accounting	AFIMSC Owner Accounting
CPTS Owner - 4/13/2022 - 001	CPTS Owner - 4/13/2022 - 001
Category Owner 4/13/2022 - 001	Category Owner 4/13/2022 - 001
Travel pay Ellsworth Owner Q&A	Travel pay Ellsworth Owner Q&A
SAFFMB Owner Q&A	SAFFMB Owner Q&A
The challenge is hosted by the Air Force Civil Engineer Center, a primary subordinate unit of the Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center, and is a capstone event that demonstrates Department of the Air Force civil engineers are ready to conduct full-spectrum, integrated base response and recovery operations, said Royal Canadian Air Force Maj. Craig Bradshaw, chief of contingency training and event lead at AFCEC.“Readiness Challenge is the premiere readiness event for Air Force Civil Engineers and dates back to the late 1980s,” said Brig. Gen. William Kale, Air Force Director of Civil Engineers. “Now, after a pause in the early 2000s, it’s back to reinvigorate the esprit de corps and warrior ethos of civil engineers by bringing together Airmen and Guardians from across the enterprise and testing their wartime capabilities.	The challenge is hosted by the Air Force Civil Engineer Center, a primary subordinate unit of the Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center, and is a capstone event that demonstrates Department of the Air Force civil engineers are ready to conduct full-spectrum, integrated base response and recovery operations, said Royal Canadian Air Force Maj. Craig Bradshaw, chief of contingency training and event lead at AFCEC.“Readiness Challenge is the premiere readiness event for Air Force Civil Engineers and dates back to the late 1980s,” said Brig. Gen. William Kale, Air Force Director of Civil Engineers. “Now, after a pause in the early 2000s, it’s back to reinvigorate the esprit de corps and warrior ethos of civil engineers by bringing together Airmen and Guardians from across the enterprise and testing their wartime capabilities.
The Air Force Civil Engineer Readiness Challenge will move one step close to its full return following an initial operational capability (IOC) competition April 18-22, at the Silver Flag Training Site at Tyndall Air Force Base, Florida.The challenge is hosted by the Air Force Civil Engineer Center, a primary subordinate unit of the Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center, and is a capstone event that demonstrates Department of the Air Force civil engineers are ready to conduct full-spectrum, integrated base response and recovery operations, said Royal Canadian Air Force Maj. Craig Bradshaw, chief of contingency training and event lead at AFCEC.	The Air Force Civil Engineer Readiness Challenge will move one step close to its full return following an initial operational capability (IOC) competition April 18-22, at the Silver Flag Training Site at Tyndall Air Force Base, Florida.The challenge is hosted by the Air Force Civil Engineer Center, a primary subordinate unit of the Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center, and is a capstone event that demonstrates Department of the Air Force civil engineers are ready to conduct full-spectrum, integrated base response and recovery operations, said Royal Canadian Air Force Maj. Craig Bradshaw, chief of contingency training and event lead at AFCEC.
Adding an item	Adding an item
testing 99cpts Q & A	its just a test
The 388th Fighter Wing’s Operations Support Squadron cyber Airmen are currently exploring high-speed communications options to support F-35A Lightning II Agile Combat Employment – operating from remote or austere locations.The flow of information is critical in any war-time environment, and space and cyber capabilities almost completely dominate that arena for modern militaries. Speed and reliability in communications are demanding to support the cyber needs of the F-35's associated systems.“We’re trying to get after what is Secretary [Frank] Kendall’s fifth operational imperative; ‘Defining optimized resilient basing, sustainment, and communications in a contested environment,’” said Lt. Col. Maxwell Cover, 388th OSS commander. “With the F-35, we are likely going to be using the ACE construct on any deployment, and we need resilient, redundant communications.”	The 388th Fighter Wing’s Operations Support Squadron cyber Airmen are currently exploring high-speed communications options to support F-35A Lightning II Agile Combat Employment – operating from remote or austere locations.The flow of information is critical in any war-time environment, and space and cyber capabilities almost completely dominate that arena for modern militaries. Speed and reliability in communications are demanding to support the cyber needs of the F-35's associated systems.“We’re trying to get after what is Secretary [Frank] Kendall’s fifth operational imperative; ‘Defining optimized resilient basing, sustainment, and communications in a contested environment,’” said Lt. Col. Maxwell Cover, 388th OSS commander. “With the F-35, we are likely going to be using the ACE construct on any deployment, and we need resilient, redundant communications.”
In four round-robin games, the Air Force team allowed only one goal and that’s thanks to their defense and goalkeeper. The goalie for the Air Force club hails straight from the 17th Intelligence Squadron, Senior Airman Gavin Bryant. In the three games that he started – he gave up zero goals in regulation.	In four round-robin games, the Air Force team allowed only one goal and that’s thanks to their defense and goalkeeper. The goalie for the Air Force club hails straight from the 17th Intelligence Squadron, Senior Airman Gavin Bryant. In the three games that he started – he gave up zero goals in regulation.
In four round-robin games, the Air Force team allowed only one goal and that’s thanks to their defense and goalkeeper. The goalie for the Air Force club hails straight from the 17th Intelligence Squadron, Senior Airman Gavin Bryant. In the three games that he started – he gave up zero goals in regulation.	In four round-robin games, the Air Force team allowed only one goal and that’s thanks to their defense and goalkeeper. The goalie for the Air Force club hails straight from the 17th Intelligence Squadron, Senior Airman Gavin Bryant. In the three games that he started – he gave up zero goals in regulation.
In four round-robin games, the Air Force team allowed only one goal and that’s thanks to their defense and goalkeeper. The goalie for the Air Force club hails straight from the 17th Intelligence Squadron, Senior Airman Gavin Bryant. In the three games that he started – he gave up zero goals in regulation.	In four round-robin games, the Air Force team allowed only one goal and that’s thanks to their defense and goalkeeper. The goalie for the Air Force club hails straight from the 17th Intelligence Squadron, Senior Airman Gavin Bryant. In the three games that he started – he gave up zero goals in regulation.
In four round-robin games, the Air Force team allowed only one goal and that’s thanks to their defense and goalkeeper. The goalie for the Air Force club hails straight from the 17th Intelligence Squadron, Senior Airman Gavin Bryant. In the three games that he started – he gave up zero goals in regulation.	In four round-robin games, the Air Force team allowed only one goal and that’s thanks to their defense and goalkeeper. The goalie for the Air Force club hails straight from the 17th Intelligence Squadron, Senior Airman Gavin Bryant. In the three games that he started – he gave up zero goals in regulation.
The Air Force Civil Engineer Center’s Natural Disaster Recovery Division, part of the Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center enterprise, is leading the rebuild, partnering with USACE to support the 325th Fighter Wing and its F-35 Program Integration Office to deliver the strategic vision of Tyndall AFB as the Installation of the Future.The flightline facilities will directly support the 325th FW and its new F-35 mission, said Col. Travis Leighton, NDR division chief.	The Air Force Civil Engineer Center’s Natural Disaster Recovery Division, part of the Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center enterprise, is leading the rebuild, partnering with USACE to support the 325th Fighter Wing and its F-35 Program Integration Office to deliver the strategic vision of Tyndall AFB as the Installation of the Future.The flightline facilities will directly support the 325th FW and its new F-35 mission, said Col. Travis Leighton, NDR division chief.
Commanders at all levels but also below squadron level, such as detachments or flights, may publish TDY orders with specific authorization from a higher-level commander. Commanders may publish orders that are not within their jurisdiction only if the proper commander approves or if Headquarters, United States Air Force (HAF) directs publication. Hospitals and aero-medical staging units may publish orders on any Air Force personnel patients, but they will send copies to the patient's parent organization (T-1). The Commander or Office of Primary Responsibility for the specific order instruction may delegate orders publishing authority, but they will not delegate orders approval authority unless authorized by AFI 51-604, Appointment to and Assumption of Command (T-1). NOTE: For personnel accountability reasons, most travel orders for Air Force Reserve component personnel will be published using the Air Force Reserve Order Writer System – Reserve (ARROWS-R) (for Reserve Personnel) & Air Force Reserve Order Writer System (ARROWS) (for Air National Guard personnel).	Commanders at all levels but also below squadron level, such as detachments or flights, may publish TDY orders with specific authorization from a higher-level commander. Commanders may publish orders that are not within their jurisdiction only if the proper commander approves or if Headquarters, United States Air Force (HAF) directs publication. Hospitals and aero-medical staging units may publish orders on any Air Force personnel patients, but they will send copies to the patient's parent organization (T-1). The Commander or Office of Primary Responsibility for the specific order instruction may delegate orders publishing authority, but they will not delegate orders approval authority unless authorized by AFI 51-604, Appointment to and Assumption of Command (T-1). NOTE: For personnel accountability reasons, most travel orders for Air Force Reserve component personnel will be published using the Air Force Reserve Order Writer System – Reserve (ARROWS-R) (for Reserve Personnel) & Air Force Reserve Order Writer System (ARROWS) (for Air National Guard personnel).
Acts administratively on behalf of the competent authority, see section 3.1.4 of this publication, who determines the need for a travel order, justifies special authorizations, and approves claims for reimbursing authorized items not indicated in the initial order or which require further administrative approval. An Orders Approving Official will not approve their own orders or claims (T-1). This official must sign manually prepared orders or requests for composed (created outside of the primary order writing systems) orders (T-1). The Orders Approving Official need not sign computer generated orders via a wet signature as long as the automated system that produced such an order contains encryption capability thus affixing their digital (electronic) signature. The printed order must identify the system generating the order and include the identities of the individual signing the order (T-1). If electronic certification capabilities exist, the order must contain an indication of certification and by whom (T-1). If the capabilities do not exist, manual certification must be accomplished (T-1).	Acts administratively on behalf of the competent authority, see section 3.1.4 of this publication, who determines the need for a travel order, justifies special authorizations, and approves claims for reimbursing authorized items not indicated in the initial order or which require further administrative approval. An Orders Approving Official will not approve their own orders or claims (T-1). This official must sign manually prepared orders or requests for composed (created outside of the primary order writing systems) orders (T-1). The Orders Approving Official need not sign computer generated orders via a wet signature as long as the automated system that produced such an order contains encryption capability thus affixing their digital (electronic) signature. The printed order must identify the system generating the order and include the identities of the individual signing the order (T-1). If electronic certification capabilities exist, the order must contain an indication of certification and by whom (T-1). If the capabilities do not exist, manual certification must be accomplished (T-1).
99 CPTS Owner added Items 0620	99 CPTS Owner added Items 0620
9 CPTS Owner added content	9 CPTS Owner added content
Following a recent contract award by the Air Force Security Forces Center, Helmet 2.0 includes the ability to mount a wider variety of accessories, features bolt-on accessory rails and a night vision goggle mount that’s easy to adjust or replace, and a chinstrap extender for gas masks.The 2.0 effort is part of AFSFC’s “replacement through attrition program,” and builds on the functionality of the SF NextGen 1.0 helmet released in 2020, said Master Sgt. John Sutherland, individual protective equipment program manager at the center.	Following a recent contract award by the Air Force Security Forces Center, Helmet 2.0 includes the ability to mount a wider variety of accessories, features bolt-on accessory rails and a night vision goggle mount that’s easy to adjust or replace, and a chinstrap extender for gas masks.The 2.0 effort is part of AFSFC’s “replacement through attrition program,” and builds on the functionality of the SF NextGen 1.0 helmet released in 2020, said Master Sgt. John Sutherland, individual protective equipment program manager at the center.
Today, Secretary of Defense Lloyd J. Austin III announced that the Department of Defense will take appropriate actions to ensure service members and their families can access reproductive health care within its authority and consistent with applicable federal law, in addition to clear guidance for health care providers to operate effectively.These actions will establish travel and transportation allowances for service members and their families to access reproductive health care, establish additional privacy protections and conduct a comprehensive contraception education campaign.	Today, Secretary of Defense Lloyd J. Austin III announced that the Department of Defense will take appropriate actions to ensure service members and their families can access reproductive health care within its authority and consistent with applicable federal law, in addition to clear guidance for health care providers to operate effectively.These actions will establish travel and transportation allowances for service members and their families to access reproductive health care, establish additional privacy protections and conduct a comprehensive contraception education campaign.
DAF announces 2022202233  Photo Contest winners   Published Nov. 7, 2022 By Debbie Aragon AFIMSC Public Affairs	DAF announces 2022202233  Photo Contest winners   Published Nov. 7, 2022 By Debbie Aragon AFIMSC Public Affairs
DAF announces 2022202233  Photo Contest winners   Published Nov. 7, 2022 By Debbie Aragon AFIMSC Public Affairs	DAF announces 2022202233  Photo Contest winners   Published Nov. 7, 2022 By Debbie Aragon AFIMSC Public Affairs
Among them is the AFRL Regional Research Hub, which works with Purdue and Cornell universities to provide more science and engineering opportunities; various STEM events, which introduce the career fields to the younger generation; Edison Grants, which promote technical proficiency in military members to provide more science and technology opportunities; and Project Arc, which is still in its grass-roots stages, but is making an impact, even in its infancy.	Among them is the AFRL Regional Research Hub, which works with Purdue and Cornell universities to provide more science and engineering opportunities; various STEM events, which introduce the career fields to the younger generation; Edison Grants, which promote technical proficiency in military members to provide more science and technology opportunities; and Project Arc, which is still in its grass-roots stages, but is making an impact, even in its infancy.
teee upp	ans upp
Among them is the AFRL Regional Research Hub, which works with Purdue and Cornell universities to provide more science and engineering opportunities; various STEM events, which introduce the career fields to the younger generation; Edison Grants, which promote technical proficiency in military members to provide more science and technology opportunities; and Project Arc, which is still in its grass-roots stages, but is making an impact, even in its infancy.	Among them is the AFRL Regional Research Hub, which works with Purdue and Cornell universities to provide more science and engineering opportunities; various STEM events, which introduce the career fields to the younger generation; Edison Grants, which promote technical proficiency in military members to provide more science and technology opportunities; and Project Arc, which is still in its grass-roots stages, but is making an impact, even in its infancy.
With a theme for 2022 of “Celebrating Traditions,” program managers at the Air Force Services Center honored the Air Force’s 75th birthday and gave photographers a chance to share their family and cultural traditions to highlight the diversity of military families, said Susan Lear, AFSVC photo contest coordinator.“Both the art contest (in the spring) and photo contest allow our military families to experience different things by giving them an opportunity to learn something new or fine tune their craft or skill through creative expression,” Lear said.“Art is a work in progress, always striving for perfection,” she said, “but it’s the flaws that give it beauty. Creating something reminds us we are a work in progress too, always learning new ways and accepting that some of our flaws are perfection in the end.”	With a theme for 2022 of “Celebrating Traditions,” program managers at the Air Force Services Center honored the Air Force’s 75th birthday and gave photographers a chance to share their family and cultural traditions to highlight the diversity of military families, said Susan Lear, AFSVC photo contest coordinator.“Both the art contest (in the spring) and photo contest allow our military families to experience different things by giving them an opportunity to learn something new or fine tune their craft or skill through creative expression,” Lear said.“Art is a work in progress, always striving for perfection,” she said, “but it’s the flaws that give it beauty. Creating something reminds us we are a work in progress too, always learning new ways and accepting that some of our flaws are perfection in the end.”
The Air Force Life Cycle Management Center at Robins Air Force Base is working on the next generation aircraft navigation system.The Resilient Embedded Global Positioning System/Inertial Navigation System program, or R-EGI for short, is one of the AFLCMC’s solutions to building resiliency into aircraft navigation systems.“We are modernizing GPS navigation systems,” said Jamey Sillence, Electronic Warfare and Avionics deputy senior materiel leader. “In the spirit of (Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. CQ Brown, Jr.’s) ‘Accelerate, Change or Lose’, we are bringing modernization to Robins AFB and the whole Air Force.”	The Air Force Life Cycle Management Center at Robins Air Force Base is working on the next generation aircraft navigation system.The Resilient Embedded Global Positioning System/Inertial Navigation System program, or R-EGI for short, is one of the AFLCMC’s solutions to building resiliency into aircraft navigation systems.“We are modernizing GPS navigation systems,” said Jamey Sillence, Electronic Warfare and Avionics deputy senior materiel leader. “In the spirit of (Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. CQ Brown, Jr.’s) ‘Accelerate, Change or Lose’, we are bringing modernization to Robins AFB and the whole Air Force.”
The initiative, developed by Sharene Brown, wife of Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. CQ Brown, Jr., and a diverse group of spouses on her Thrive Team, increases focus and attention on the top five quality of life challenges military families face.  The challenges – childcare, education, healthcare, housing and spouse employment – are directly tied to military family readiness, resilience and retention of the force, as are numerous supporting pillars such as the Airman’s Attic, exchange stores, commissaries, fitness centers, libraries, legal assistance and sexual assault response coordinators. During Military Family Appreciation Month, here's a look at some of the ways AFIMSC supports Five and Thrive challenge areas. 	https://ideaentity.sharepoint.com/teams/SAFFMCSP/CSPPortalTest/SitePages/knowledge-articles.aspx?ItemId=385&CPTS=ALLJOINT BASE SAN ANTONIO-LACKLAND, Texas -- The Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center and its subordinate units deliver morale, welfare and recreation programs, activities and infrastructure to build and sustain ready and resilient Airmen, Guardians and families.  Many of the programs, missions and initiatives are closely associated with the Five and Thrive initiative that launched in 2021.  The initiative, developed by Sharene Brown, wife of Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. CQ Brown, Jr., and a diverse group of spouses on her Thrive Team, increases focus and attention on the top five quality of life challenges military families face.  The challenges – childcare, education, healthcare, housing and spouse employment – are directly tied to military family readiness, resilience and retention of the force, as are numerous supporting pillars such as the Airman’s Attic, exchange stores, commissaries, fitness centers, libraries, legal assistance and sexual assault response coordinators. During Military Family Appreciation Month, here's a look at some of the ways AFIMSC supports Five and Thrive challenge areas. 
test Upppp	test Upppp
 In the early stages of innovation, a lack of funding and support often hinders or stops progress. This stage is referred to as the “valley of death.”“Many ideas and advancements never make it out of the valley of death,” said Pitman Kennedy, innovation project manager with Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center Ventures. “It’s hard to get momentum, support and funding, but that’s where we come in.”At AFIMSC, a network of project managers and subject matter experts are breaking down barriers and helping innovators test and implement ideas with potential to make work and life better for Airmen, Guardians and families.“We’ve created a team of teams to support innovation concepts. And not just grassroots concepts, AFIMSC is driving change from the strategic level,” Kennedy said.	 In the early stages of innovation, a lack of funding and support often hinders or stops progress. This stage is referred to as the “valley of death.”“Many ideas and advancements never make it out of the valley of death,” said Pitman Kennedy, innovation project manager with Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center Ventures. “It’s hard to get momentum, support and funding, but that’s where we come in.”At AFIMSC, a network of project managers and subject matter experts are breaking down barriers and helping innovators test and implement ideas with potential to make work and life better for Airmen, Guardians and families.“We’ve created a team of teams to support innovation concepts. And not just grassroots concepts, AFIMSC is driving change from the strategic level,” Kennedy said.
 In the early stages of innovation, a lack of funding and support often hinders or stops progress. This stage is referred to as the “valley of death.” “Many ideas and advancements never make it out of the valley of death,” said Pitman Kennedy, innovation project manager with Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center Ventures. “It’s hard to get momentum, support and funding, but that’s where we come in.” At AFIMSC, a network of project managers and subject matter experts are breaking down barriers and helping innovators test and implement ideas with potential to make work and life better for Airmen, Guardians and families. “We’ve created a team of teams to support innovation concepts. And not just grassroots concepts, AFIMSC is driving change from the strategic level,” Kennedy said. Along with the right government and industry partners, that team includes Airmen from spark cells at each AFIMSC primary subordinate unit – Air Force Civil Engineer Center, Air Force Installation Contracting Center, Air Force Security Forces Center and Air Force Services Center – who are committed to accelerating change across their functional areas and scaling great ideas across the enterprise.	“Innovation is important because things change, that’s the one thing that’s inevitable. And the warfighting effort has changed drastically,” said Teresa Warman, a member of the AFSVC Spark.“If we don’t continue to innovate, we’re going to be left behind.”Projects are funneled to the PSU sparks cells through several paths. They can be routed through annual AFIMSC innovation events such as the Innovation Rodeo or the Installation and Mission Support Weapons and Tactics Conference; identified by functional leaders as capabilities or assets needed in the field; a result of an industry pitch; or ideas directly from Airmen or Guardians at every level.
These physicians discover, prevent and manage the various physiological responses that result from encountering exceptional environments.	 Aerospace Medicine Specialists/Flight Surgeons are primary care physicians for pilots and crewmembers traveling in air or space.
Learn more via the links below or contact us for information on availability and where to start.	From Flight Engineers to In-Flight Refueling specialists, the Air Force offers dozens of opportunities for Aviation professionals across the world. 
Aerospace Physiology Technicians are responsible for priming pilots and aircrews with the essential skills	 Using their expertise in human factors, analytics, and performance
Yes, however the Air Force symbol is a registered	Yes, however the Air Force symbol is a registered
Whether you’re interested in serving part time or full time, we’re always looking for individuals ready to take their life to the next level.	Air Force Active Duty is filled with opportunities for those who want to join the world’s greatest air force 
1212121111	1212121111
9550823666	9550823666
12345AD1	12345AD1
Deploy and employ air refueling, airlift, expeditionary aerospace and combat support forces around the world, while supporting National Security, Homeland Defense, and State of Maine objectives at home.	1234567890
1234567	1234567
