Description	Answer
Will I need to do anything for my last payout for my reenlistment bonus? I reenlisted under zone B and I got 75% upfront. I was told I would get the remaining 25% at my 1 year mark.	You need to ensure your contract has been fully completed by FSS/MPS. Once Personnel loads the bonus information the data is sent straight to DFAS for payment release.
I have a travel voucher that has been signed pending approval for more than 2 weeks. Who can I contact to inquire about this?	
Do you accept SmartVouchers from DFAS? I have a member filing a paper voucher from a PCS and would like to use this function--thank you!	We do not accept this form at this time. However, our in-person in-processing has streamlined the format to ask you the questions needed once (Name, rank, key dates, etc.) and pre-populate across all forms for PCS voucher and station gain actions CPTS needs to process. This yields next day turn-arounds typically for updating not only your PCS move reimbursement documents to AFFSC for final payment, but also your BAH.
Is inprocessing still at 1230 on Thursdays?	
To clarify the traveler must put the actual location of the temporary duty, not the city or area.	DoD 7000.14-R (DoDFMR), Volume 9, Chapter 5, para 0503, “To ensure proper reimbursement, the actual TDY duty location must be listed on the travel orders (i.e., if going TDY to Ft. Bliss, TX, the travel orders must explicitly state “Ft. Bliss, TX” not “El Paso, TX”).”
Is there a new GPC homepage link under usaf.dps.mil?	
I just returned from my deployment, how do I file my voucher?	"Financial Ops has paused the in person reintegration briefs. However, our DTS team is able to assist through CSP.
 Forms can be found through the Knowledge Base- Deployment Corner (list below). Once you have completed the documents and have all of the required receipts, submit a inquiry with all documentation. Our team will review. If all documents are complete and signed, the tech will ""T-enter"" your voucher in DTS. If not, the tech will be in touch to advise on corrections. Be sure to check the status of your inquiry, the tech will provide updates in the inquiry. Inquiries will be closed after 5 days if no response is provided."
My name is A1C Mendez-Ramos. I am new at McGuire Afb and submitted my paperwork need for the inprocessing. When I am going to received my first BAH payment?	"Greetings,
 
 
 You will start receiving JBMDL's BAH once the transaction to gain you to the base has posted to your military pay record. This usually happens within 2 pay periods after you have filed your voucher. If two pay checks have passed and you have not seen the correct BAH, create an inquiry and the team will look into it
 
 
 v/r,
 MSgt Smit"
I am coming up on a PCS and I need to be signed off on vMPF.	If you are PCSing out of Minot (not retiring or separating), you will need to submit a copy of your orders/amendments and provide us your projected date of departure. You can submit a 'Military Pay' inquiry 30 days prior to your projected date of departure..
My spouse and I are both stationed in Minot AFB. Do we both get with dependent rate for our newborn?	No, only one military member may claim the new dependent. The claiming member will then receive with dependent rate BAH, while the other will receive the without dependent rate.
I am coming back from a deployment/TDY and I would like to claim FSA.	You can claim FSA by filling out a DD 1531 (boxes 1-9b, 10a). Please make sure that you completed a voucher and it is on 'APPROVED' status. Create a 'Military Pay' inquiry.
"Hi, inquiring about a TSP note that has been approved for temporary suspension due to COVID-19. It has been 2 full pay periods and haven't seen the suspension on mypay stub.
 
 
 The TSP folks have informed me that the temporary suspension is place, now must be processed on your end.
 
 
 Please look into this matter and if more information is required, let me know as soon as possible.
 
 
 Regards
 Robert Huerta"	
SUBMISSION OF TRAVEL CLAIMS	DoD 7000.14-R (DoDFMR), Volume 9, Chapter 8, para 080601, “The traveler must submit all claims within five working days of return to or arrival at the PDS.”
Non-availability Statements	No, per DoD 7000.14-R (DoDFMR), Volume 9, Chapter 5, para 050801, “Travelers are not required to obtain written non-availability statements before obtaining reimbursement for commercial lodging costs and the local M&IE rate. The availability of government quarters, contract quarters, and dining facilities must be confirmed when a reservation request is made.” Travelers must obtain the confirmation by using the procedures in para 050801.A, same publication. DoD Guidance is the traveler will reserve lodging using DTS and utilize ILPP facilities if available.
Good morning. Do I upload my receipts for LQA on this website?	
Trying to find out what to do if LeaveWeb is showing past Leave as rejected after the return was approved.	
"Good afternoon,
 
 
 My spouse moved from Denver to my new duty station in Omaha and therefore her address for BAH needs to be updated as to not get under/over paid. I was unable to find where to do this and was hoping for some guidance on the subject. Thank you and have a great day.
 
 
 A1C Alexander Ervin"	
How do I start BAH after moving out of military housing?	
"Greetings, 
 
 
 I would like to ask a question about sending AF-3821 forms to multiple CPTS for AF bases. 
 
 
 I have created a profile for my location at RAFB to submit my AF-3821 forms. But my question is can I send to all CPTS AFB with multiple PASCODES in the near future? 
 
 
 Thank you!"	"This feature currently does not exist. However, you can either 
 1) adjust your profile PASCODE to the base you want to route the AF3821 to, this would be challenging to follow up on if you made a mistake or what to refresh to check the status as you'd have to change each time and refresh CSP. 
 2) Submit on behalf of other using another Category and the member's info which if their profile is built with a PASCODE that matches their supporting CPTS the inquiry will route appropriately. I'd ask to be added as a Team Member on those inquiries so you can track the status.
 v/r
 Lt Col Franta"
"Good Morning,
 
 
 What is the plan on how the tax deferment will be repaid? Will there be some type of payment plan, automatic garnishing of wages, or will members be able to pay extra each month to offset it? Please advise and thank you.
 
 
 v/r
 MSgt Nixon"	"The current method as described is the rate will be turned back on for 1 Jan pay meaning mid-month Jan and EOM Jan (paid on 1 Feb) would reflect the ~6.3% rate PLUS an additional 6.3% make-up for these few months the payments were deferred.
 
 
 If legislation passes then no collection will be made. As we approach December I anticipate hearing more on the specific tactics.
 v/r
 Lt Col Franta
 Commander, 502 CPTS"
"Greetings, 
 
 
 I am working on my PCS and have a questions about GTC use.
 
 I am doing a PPM (DITTY move). Should I be using my GTC for truck or storage rental?
 
 
 Could you please provide a list of what is authorized for GTC use?
 
 
 Thanks, 
 Capt Cencer"	
"Leaders,
 
 BLUF: The vast majority of personnel on GAFB will be affected by a payroll tax deferment starting with their next paycheck. The extra money we will get over the next few months will be paid back next year. Please ensure your Airmen are tracking to prevent financial strain in the future. 
 
 Per 17 FSS, The Airman & Family Readiness Center (Bldg. 145) is ready to assist with any financial readiness questions per the tax deferral or any other financial matter. Please feel free to contact them at 654-3893 or emailfsc.programs@us.af.mil (Monday – Friday from 0800-1600) for more information or to make an appointment.
 
 Background: This is a “deferral” of taxes (not free/additional money) and members will have to pay this “deferred” tax back. Federal workers do not have the option to “opt-out” of having the tax deferred. The best way to know how it will affect you is to check your LES. More information is expected on how the deferred taxes will be recouped in 2021.
 
 Please be cautious of information from unofficial sources. Information from FM channels is below. Additional information can be found on the DFAS website here:https://www.dfas.mil/taxes/Social-Security-Deferral/.
 
 v/r
 KARA L. TAYLOR, Lt Col, USAF
 Commander, 17th Comptroller Squadron
 Comm: (325) 654-5181
 DSN: 477-5181"	"In response to the Presidential Memorandum issued on August 8, 2020 (https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/memorandum-deferring-payroll-tax-obligations-light-ongoing-covid-19-disaster), and the Department of the Treasury/IRS guidance issued August 28, 2020, below is the information we received regarding the planned implementation of the deferred payroll tax. 
 
 DFAS will implement system changes to defer employees’ withholding of 6.2% of social security wages for those employees under the wages threshold and subject to social security tax. In addition, DFAS is planning on sending a SMARTDOC to all employees – both civilian and military members next week.
 
 Partnering with the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), DFAS will implement the guidance according to the expectation that all Federal Civilian Payroll Providers will act in unison. OMB directed all Executive Branch Agencies to implement the deferral. This change will be made for both Civilians and the Military. As such, no Payroll Providers, Departments/Agencies, nor employees will be able to opt-in/opt-out of the deferral. The elimination of the withholding of employee deductions for the applicable employees will be effective the second paycheck in September, pay period ending September 12, 2020, that pays out September 18th. For the military members it will be effective with the mid-month that pays out September 15th.
 
 DFAS will defer the Social Security (Old Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance or OASDI) employee deductions for all employees whose gross social security wages that are less than $4,000 in any given pay period through the end of 2020 (for military members this is calculated on monthly rate of basic pay that is less than $8,666.66 in any given month). Applicability will be determined on a pay period-by-pay period basis and could vary according to the wages subject to OASDI withholding. The deferral will not impact those employees in Retirement Plans not subject to Social Security withholding (i.e. CSRS).
 
 
 Please be advised that the IRS guidance advises that the deferred amount of OASDI tax be collected between January 1-April 30, 2021, more information to come from DFAS on exactly how collection will occur. The IRS is still working to determine how the deferral and collection will impact employees’ W-2s. Employees should be made aware that the temporary deferral of the 6.2% OASDI withholding does not eliminate them from being liable for the tax should they depart from Federal Civilian Employment."
"Part III - Administrative, Procedural, and Miscellaneous
 
 Relief with Respect to Employment Tax Deadlines Applicable to Employers Affected by the Ongoing Coronavirus (COVID-19) Disease 2019 Pandemic
  
 Notice 2020-65
 On August 8, 2020, the President of the United States issued a Presidential Memorandum directing the Secretary of the Treasury (Secretary) to use his authority pursuant to section 7508A of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) to defer the withholding, deposit, and payment of certain payroll tax obligations. Accordingly, the Secretary has determined that employers that are required to withhold and pay the employee share of social security tax under section 3102(a) or the railroad retirement tax equivalent under section 3202(a) are affected by the COVID-19 emergency for purposes of the relief described in the Presidential Memorandum and this notice (Affected Taxpayers). For Affected Taxpayers, the due date for the withholding and payment of the tax imposed by section 3101(a), and so much of the tax imposed by section 3201 as is attributable to the rate in effect under section 3101(a), on Applicable Wages, as defined herein, (collectively Applicable Taxes) is postponed until the period beginning on January 1, 2021, and ending on April 30, 2021.
 
  
 Applicable Wages
 For purposes of this notice, Applicable Wages means wages as defined in section 3121(a) or compensation as defined in section 3231(e) paid to an employee on a pay date during the period beginning on September 1, 2020, and ending on December 31, 2020, but only if the amount of such wages or compensation paid for a bi-weekly pay period is less than the threshold amount of $4,000, or the equivalent threshold amount with respect to other pay periods. The determination of Applicable Wages is made on a pay period-by-pay period basis. If the amount of wages or compensation payable to an employee for a pay period is less than the corresponding pay period threshold amount, then that amount is considered Applicable Wages for the pay period, and the relief provided in this notice applies to those wages or that compensation paid to that employee for that pay period, irrespective of the amount of wages or compensation paid to the employee for other pay periods.
 
 Payment of Deferred Applicable Taxes
 
 An Affected Taxpayer must withhold and pay the total Applicable Taxes that the Affected Taxpayer deferred under this notice ratably from wages and compensation paid between January 1, 2021 and April 30, 2021 or interest, penalties, and additions to tax will begin to accrue on May 1, 2021, with respect to any unpaid Applicable Taxes. If necessary, the Affected Taxpayer may make arrangements to otherwise collect the total Applicable Taxes from the employee."	"Question 1: Why are my Social Security taxes being deferred? 
  
 Answer: In order to provide relief during the COVID-19 pandemic, a Presidential Memorandum was issued on August 8, 2020, and guidance followed by Internal Revenue Service on August 28, 2020, to temporarily defer Social Security (Old Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI)), as seen on the Army, Air Force, and Navy Service Members Leave and Earnings Statement as “FICA-SOC SECURITY”) tax withholdings. The Social Security tax is labeled as “Social Security” on the LES for the Marine Corps.
 
 Presidential Memorandum link: https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2020/08/13/2020-17899/deferring-payroll-tax-obligations-in-light-of-the-ongoing-covid-19-disaster
 
 Question 2: What is the Social Security tax?
  
 Answer: Social Security tax is also called the Old Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI) tax and is required by law. The tax funds the Social Security program, which is administered by the Social Security Administration. 
 
 Question 3: Where are the Social Security taxes shown on my LES?
  
 Answer: The Leave and Earnings Statement (LES) for the Air Force, Army and Navy member list the Social Security taxes as “FICA-SOC SECURITY” within the deductions section. For the Marine Corps this deduction is listed as “Social Security” on the LES.
 
 Question 4: How is the Social Security tax calculated?
  
 Answer: The Social Security tax is set by at law at 6.2%. The tax is calculated as 6.2% of a military member’s basic pay. For example, an E5 with 8 years of service has a monthly basic pay rate of $3,306.30. Assuming the E5 was paid for the whole month of duty, the monthly Social Security tax liability would be calculated at 6.2% of $3,306.30, which equals $204.99. Members can use their August or prior Leave and Earnings Statements as a good reference for their typical Social Security tax withholding amount. 
 
 Question 5: Can I opt-out of the deferred Social Security tax withholding? 
  
 Answer: No. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) directed all Executive Branch Agencies to implement the tax deferral. As such, no Payroll Providers, Departments/Agencies, or service members will be able to opt-in/opt-out of the deferral. 
 
 Question 6: Does this affect any of my other tax withholdings?
  
 Answer: No. Pursuant to the Department of Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service Guidance, this only affects your Social Security tax withholdings, which will be deferred from September 2020 through the end of the calendar year 2020.
 
 Department of Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service guidance link: 
 https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-drop/n-20-65.pdf 
 
 Question 7: What is the wage limit amount for determining who will have their Social Security tax withholdings deferred through the end of calendar year 2020? 
  
 Answer: If your monthly rate of basic pay is less than $8,666.66, your Social Security taxes will be deferred. If your monthly rate of basic pay is at or above the threshold, your social security tax withholding will not be affected by this temporary deferral. 
 
 The monthly rate of $8,666.66 is determined as: 
 
 The IRS rate of $4,000 is based on a bi-weekly pay schedule (26 pay periods), while your military pay is calculated on a monthly pay schedule (12 months). To convert the bi-weekly rate of $4,000 to monthly, multiply $4,000 X 26 (pay periods) = $104,000 and divide by 12 (months), which will equal $8,666.66 for the monthly rate. 
 
 Question 8: What grades are impacted? 
  
 Answer: 
 • Enlisted service members will have their Social Security taxes deferred. 
 • Officers at the grade O1-O4, the grade of O5 with less than 16 years of service, and the grade of O6 with less than 14 years of service will have their Social Security taxes deferred.
 • All officers at the grade of 05 with 16 or more years of service, grade of O6 with 14 or more years of service, and all O7s through O10s will not have their Social Security taxes deferred. 
 • All warrant officers will have their Social Security taxes deferred except those at a grade of W5 with 24 or more years of service. 
 
 Question 9: Will I be required to pay back the Social Security taxes that are deferred? 
  
 Answer: Yes. Current IRS guidance indicates the payment of the deferred taxes is postponed until January 1, 2021. The deferred Social Security taxes not withheld from wages during 2020 will be collected from your wages between January 1, 2021, and April 30, 2021. Additional information on the collection process will be provided in the future.
 
 Question 10: How much will my payroll provider collect during each pay period starting in January 1, 2021 through April 30, 2021?
  
 Answer: As more information becomes available on the collection of the deferred Social Security taxes, it will be posted here. 
 
 Question 11: Can the deferred Social Security tax liability be waived or forgiven? 
  
 Answer: Only Congress has the authority to forgive taxes. Deferral of the Social Security tax only postpones when the taxes are due. 
 
 Question 12: Can I select my repayment terms, by lump sum or evenly?
  
 Answer: Pursuant to current Department of Treasury and Internal Revenue Service Guidance, total deferred Social Security taxes must be withheld evenly from wages beginning January 1, 2001, and ending on April 30, 2021. As more information becomes available on the collection of the deferred Social Security taxes, it will be posted here. 
 
 Question 13: Do I have to pay interest and penalties if not paid after April 2021?
  
 Answer: As more information becomes available on the application of interest and penalties, it will be posted here. 
 
 Question 14: I am separating from the service before the end of this year; will I be required to pay it back? 
  
 Answer: If you separate or retire in 2020 before the Social Security tax can be collected in 2021, you are still responsible for the Social Security tax repayment. As more information becomes available on the collection of any deferred Social Security taxes, it will be posted here. 
 
 Question 15: How will this affect my 2020 and 2021 W-2? 
  
 Answer: As more information and guidance becomes available from the Internal Revenue Service on how the deferral and collections affect your 2020 and 2021 W-2s, it will be posted here. 
 
 Question 16: When will the payroll tax deferral begin? 
  
 Answer: The deferral of the withholding of the Social Security tax for service members will be effective for mid-month pay September."
How do I in-process with Finance?	In-processing: https://www.dyess.af.mil/Support-Agencies-Programs/Finance/
"Hello,
 
 
 I have lived/worked/owned property in Texas for 1+ years now. Can the Finance office provide any information on the process to update my residency from NC to TX?
 
 
 Thank you!"	
I am having trouble with my SDAP entitlement.	"If you are having problems with SDAP, please contact MPF first to confirm that the transaction has been inputted. If the transaction has been inputted then contact finance if you do not see your SDAP on your LES.
 
 
 If you are inquiring about SDAP increases, please start the process with your CSS."
Please assist.	
how do i switch my pay from twice a month to once a month.	
I have currently just made it to clear air force base and was wanting to know if someone could help me with some questions that I have please. My phone number is (405)694-0645.	
"Good morning,
 
 
 I have a member who has been attempting to submit an inquiry but the online inquiry website tells her that her EDIPI (DoD ID number) is not valid. The member has attempted to update her profile on the website but it still tells her the number is invalid.
 
 
 The member is A1C Megan Peterson 1257335050.
 email: megan.peterson.4@us.af.mil
 
 
 Any help that can you can provide would be appreciated.
 
 
 V/r,
 Kelsey M. Torrez, TSgt, USAF
 NCOIC, Cyber Systems Operations
 691 COS, Directory Services
 
 DSN 314-478-7161 Comm +49 06371-405-7161"	
My retirement date is Oct 2, 2020. I submitted the information, but not sure what I need from you all to complete this process?	
If an inquiry has been resolved how can we delete it or complete it from the Portal system?	
"Sir/ Ma'am,
 
 I was promoted to E-3 after the completion of tech school and Im still receiving E-1 pay, how would i go about fixing this?
 
 
 Thank you for your time
 v/r
 
 
 A1C Prince, Isaiah
 LRS/LGRF
 Fuels Distrobution"	
"Good Morning Sir/Ma'am,
 
 
 I am contacting you in regards to me In Processing to 647 LRS in Hickam AFB. I arrived here at 21 Sep 2020 then completed my 2 weeks of quarantine. I am allowed to live off-base and to receive BAH and BAS in accordance to that. If you have any further questions or comments feel free to contact me."	
319 CPTS Customer Service Hours	319 CPTS Customer Service Hours
319 CPTS Briefings	319 CPTS Briefings
PCS Supporting Documents	"The following items are required (when applicable): PCS Orders, any amendments, memorandums in lieu of amendments, receipts for any reimbursable expenses $75 or more, receipts for lodging at port, temporary lodging receipts, TDY en route for PCS lodging receipts, OCONUS lodging receipts, lodging non-availability letter (if lodged off base), airfare receipts, itinerary/receipt for government funded/contracted flights (rotator/Patriot Express/Etc.), vehicle scratch and dent form signed by VPC and individual receiving vehicle (when authorized vehicle shipment and picked up en route for PCS), and GTC/Bank statements showing currency exchange rates and amounts charged in USD when expenses are in foreign currency.
 
 Requirements change from time to time so please understand that this may not be an all inclusive list or your situation may not be as common as to list the requirement. Some receipts are always required regardless of the dollar amount to include lodging, airfare/any transportation fare, and rental car (to include fuel)."
How days before you PCS can you fill for DLA? Thanks!	Advance DLA can be submitted as early as 10 days from final out date.
CPS sending on behalf of former employee inquiring on payment of annual leave following his 8 Aug resignation. Who can he contact for information? Please advise	
"I just want to know if I am on the deferment plan for federal taxes? Because I see that they are still being taken out?
 
 
 Thank you"	
When are evacuation travel voucher payments going to be paid back?	
What are the steps to be reimbursed for POV storage when coming back from deployment?	
"Morning,
 
 
 Im curious if anyone knows how to reestablish a TSP loan payment to auto deduct from a paycheck. Due to my PCS'ing I need to get it reestablished.
 
 
 Appreciate any response.
 
 
 Thank you!"	
how do i do efinance?	"You can find the most current ""Aviano eFinance Guide"" under Announcements in the CSP, which will assist you in filing your PCS travel voucher. eFinance Link:
 https://efinanceworkspace.wpafb.af.mil"
I was just wondering what I needed to do to accomplish my separation out processing before my final out on Friday. I thought finance was going to be back in office this week but saw that you are out of office indefinitely.	
There is no remark on my orders about receiving DLA. Is that something the MPF needs to fix or is DLA automatic?	
I am separating but I will be remaining in the local area of Travis AFB. Will I still need to fill out a travel voucher? I emailed the finance customer service but I never received the packet that the virtual out processing checklist describes. I found the link on the finance page for separations, but I am not sure what I am required to send in due to the fact that I am not moving after I separate.	
I am medically retiring with less than 20 years, where can I find what my projected retirement pay will be, and when should I expect to receive first payment	
"I am trying to calculate how much I will receive back for my travel pay with TLE & the Quarantine reimbursement. What is the best way to do this? I keep finding conflicting information on the internet. 
 
 
 Thank you in advance!"	
"How do you want me to send you information/attachments regarding new employees, new certifiers, etc?
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pollyanna M.K. Gero
 AFOSI, 3rd Field Investigations Region
 Unit Program Coordinator
 pollyanna.gero@us.af.mil
 
 Cell (618) 792-6275"	
"Do you want the civilian employees under my care to contact CSP directly with their questions and/or concerns regarding $ instead of me passing it onto you?
 
 
 Pollyanna M.K. Gero
 AFOSI, 3rd Field Investigations Region
 Unit Program Coordinator
 pollyanna.gero@us.af.mil
 
 Cell (618) 792-6275"	
"How do you want the 3821s submitted?
 
 
 Pollyanna M.K. Gero
 AFOSI, 3rd Field Investigations Region
 Unit Program Coordinator
 pollyanna.gero@us.af.mil
 
 Cell (618) 792-6275"	
"My computer took a crash recently, would you send me the list again of what is needed for a new employee you require for ATAAPS, etc.
 
 
 Pollyanna M.K. Gero
 AFOSI, 3rd Field Investigations Region
 Unit Program Coordinator
 pollyanna.gero@us.af.mil
 
 Cell (618) 792-6275"	
"Hello I was wondering if on my inquiry it says waiting on military pay technician for a week in a half if they are just reviewing it and it just takes time or they forgot about my inquiry? Also if I submitted everything on the 17th of October how long will it be until I see BAH and BAS in my pay check?
 
 
 Thanks you"	
"Marriage
 Divorced
 Single, birth of a child"	You will need to complete an AF Form 594 and provide the appropriate documentation for the status change i.e. marriage certificate, divorce decree, birth certificate etc.
How to delete an inquiry.	
I'm trying to access my LESs from Sept ember and Oct 2020 but MyPay said that they are not available. How can I access them?	
What PCS travel allowances are authorized.	"Per diem: You are authorized 100% of the standard CONUS per diem rate (currently $151), which includes Meals and Incidental Expenses (M&IE). You are also authorized Lodging Plus for flying and TDY, and/or MALT Plus for POC Travel. Applicable M&IE, Lodging Plus, and MALT Plus are multiplied by the number of actual travel days not to exceed the authorized travel days. Your spouse and each child 12 or over are authorized 75% of your allowances, and each child under 12 is authorized 50% of your allowance. If your driving involves OCONUS locations, your per diem rate would be the OCONUS locality rate.
 PCS allowances while flying: Your per diem will be based on the locality rate of your gaining PDS or authorized stop over point. You will get per diem for the actual travel time used, not to include any travel for leave. Normally, for travel in CONUS, one travel day is allowed for travel by air. Your spouse and children 12 and over are authorized 75% of your per diem allowance; children under 12 are authorized 50% of your per diem allowance.
 
  If you purchase your own airfare, you will be reimbursed not to exceed the cost of government procured tickets for the official travel. NOTE: You cannot purchase transoceanic or non-US carrier airfare for your own transportation; any transoceanic or OCONUS travel arrangements must be made through your servicing Transportation Management Office (TMO). Listed below is a general description of PCS travel and transportation allowances. Actual allowances depend on your individual travel circumstances. Member and Dependent Travel and Transportation Allowances: When you travel under a PCS order, the government either furnishes transportation, reimbursement, or a payment in lieu of transportation at rates found at the per diem link below.Generally, you select the transportation mode (i.e., airplane, train, bus, POC) for travel between the old and new Permanent Duty Stations (PDS).House Hold Goods (HHG) Transportation and Storage: You are authorized HHG transportation and/or storage. Actual weight allowance will depend on your grade and dependency status. Traffic Management Office (TMO) can provide weight allowances.POV Transportation: If you are ordered to make a PCS to, from, or between OCONUS PDSs, you may be authorized to have one POV, transported to the vehicle processing center serving the member's new PDS or other authorized place. The POV must be for personal use by either you or your dependents.Dislocation Allowance: DLA partially reimburses you for the relocation expenses of a PCS or evacuation. The rate is based on your grade and dependency status.
  Rates are available at the DLA link below.TLA: (overseas only) Temporary Lodging Allowance (TLA) partially offsets the added living expenses within OCONUS incurred by a member and dependents incident to a PCS. To estimate your TLA allowance, please use ourTLA Calculator.TLE Allowance: (Continental USA only)Temporary Lodging Expense (TLE) allowance partially offsets the added living expenses within CONUS incurred by a member and dependents incident to a PCS. To estimate your TLE allowance, please use ourTLE Calculator.
 
  To calculate an estimate of your CONUS POV PCS reimbursement, please use our Military PCS Calculator.
 
  To file a PCS settlement voucher, please use E-Finance."
Is there a way to delete an inquiry once it has been resolved?	
How long does it take to process an OHA Advancement once approved and is it direct deposit or tied into your next pay check?	
Has the 2021 Pay Period Calendar been published? I was unable to locate it on the DFAS, OPM and DCPAS webpages.	"GSA has a good calendar here :
 https://www.gsa.gov/cdnstatic/GSA_Payroll_Calendar2021.pdf"
How do I file an accrual voucher? What all do I need to upload?	
When does the use or loose Civilian leave need to be used by?	
So instead of getting paid on the 1st and 15th, I would like to know how to change that into one pay.	
At my gaining station I will have to quarantine and house hunt. How many days I’m allowed to stay at lodging to be reimbursed for quarantine and house hunt?	
If an employee is on second or third shift, when they work for example on first shift. Do they rate regular overtime? Or do they rate over time with their shift premium?	
On the AF220 what is the MPO NO?	
I have not submitted for CZTE outside of deployment, what documents are required to be submitted and can I submit for the my entire crew?	
"· MILPAY Active Component: Begin collections as planned with mid-month January and collect in even amounts over 24 increments (12 Mid-Month and 12 End of Month collections)
 
 
 · MILPAY Reserve Component: Begin collections with the mid-month disbursement vs. the first pay run of the month to be in alignment with Active Component and to ensure time for programming and testing in advance of collections. We will collect at 2% of pay until the full deferral has been collected from the member.
 
 
 · No changes are recommended for Separated Members. MILPAY, CIVPAY and NAF are moving forward establishing debts for separated members and ensuring that taxes are paid so that W-2s can be issued reflecting the accurate tax information.
 
 
 
 MILITARY –
 Q1. On the Deferred Social Security repayment being extended to 12 months, will DFAS auto set up the collection rate?
 Q2. Does the minimum $50 per month repayment in the DoD FMR factor into the repayments?
 Q3. Will a member have the option to accelerate repayment if they choose?
 
 Q4. If a member is due to separate or retire prior to 31 Dec 2021 will they have the balance due collected prior to separation?"	"MILITARY 
 
  A1: DFAS will establish the collection rate for the 12 month collection period. There will be a difference between DJMS-AC and DJMS-RC collections. Given that members paid out of DJMS-RC have intermittent duty schedules, it was not feasible to split the deferred amount by equal dollar amounts, as some members will not be on consistent duty through the collection period. Debts will be set up in both DJMS-AC and DJMS-RC to collect the deferred OASDI, with LES remarks updating the debt balance through the collection period. DJMS-AC debts created will divide the deferred collections evenly among the 24 pay periods. DJMS-RC debts created will collect at a rate of 2% of net pay (vs the 6% originally planned when the collection period was 4 months). 
 
 A2: No, does not apply to collection of taxes. We are using debt FIDs and TINs in the pay system as a mechanism to collect the deferred tax amounts. It was the most feasible way that we could accomplish within the pay system to allow for tracking and reporting.
 A3: No, with the volume of members with taxes deferred, adding this option would present too much risk.
 A4: For members separating in 2020 (during the deferral period), the debts will be established as Out of Service debts and collected through our Debt & Claims Management Office. For members separating in 2021, the remainder of the uncollected deferred amount will be collected from final pay. Any residual amount will be set up as an Out of Service debt."
"· CIVPAY: Begin collections as planned with Pay Period End (PPE) 1/16/2021 and collected in even amounts over 24 pay periods ending with PPE 12/4/2021
 · No changes are recommended for Separated Members. MILPAY, CIVPAY and NAF are moving forward establishing debts for separated members and ensuring that taxes are paid so that W-2s can be issued reflecting the accurate tax information.
 
 CIVILIAN –
 Q1. On the Deferred Social Security repayment being extended to 12 months, will DFAS auto set up the collection rate?
 Q2. Does the minimum $50 per month repayment in the DoD FMR factor into the repayments?
 Q3. Will an employee have the option to accelerate repayment if they choose?
 Q4. If an employee is due to separate or retire prior to 31 Dec 2021 will they have the balance due collected prior to separation?"	"CIVILIAN –
 A1: DFAS will establish collections at the 1/24th rate of the total deferral amount in DCPS.
 A2 : No the debt collection does not apply to those that remain employees; these are not actually debt repayments, but collection of deferred taxes. We are using the debt module in DCPS, because that is the best means of tracking, but they are not actually debts until the employee separates.
 A3: No, employees will not have an option for repayment if they remain employees paid by DFAS. With over a million employees with taxes deferred, adding in additional options presents too great a risk.
 A4: If the employee separates for whatever reason prior to full collection PPE 12/4/21, DCPS will attempt to collect the remainder from the employee’s final pay. If unable to collect the full amount, a debt will be established."
How do I update the state I claim for tax purposes? I currently claim Oregon because that is where I entered the Military however I am retiring soon and have no connection to Oregon anymore and would like to claim Idaho where I will be moving to upon retirement.	
What is the process for submitting CZTE for a particular month?	
I missed the deadline to respond about my debt. Can I repay it in a lump sum? it has not been 2 pay periods.	
I would like to update my W-4 for Pay Period 2 pay date on 22 January 2021.	
What is the new daily rate for PCS per diem while traveling via POV?	
I was wondering if there is a form I need to fill out to receive dislocation allowance?	No, dislocation allowance will automatically pay with your PCS voucher if you are entitled to it and did not receive advance DLA. If you did not receive DLA in your PCS voucher payment but are entitled to it, you may submit a supplemental voucher.
"Typically when a member goes TDY, their accruals are processed in DTS.
 However, when you have a TDY-enroute during a PCS, you have to manually file your accrual vouchers with finance."	Please complete the attached accrual worksheet, and submit a CSP inquiry. Be sure to attached your completed accrual worksheet, as well as a copy of your PCS orders identifying that you're performing a TDY en-route.
What questions do you have about deployment entitlements?	Please see attached deployment entitlement handout.
Outprocessing	Please provide:Copy of orders (all pages, current RNLTD, if no provide MFR or amendment)Departure dateFinal out date
Debt	"Please do not mail check to finance. If paying check or money order with exact amount of the debt and individually per debt payable to U.S. Treasury, Monday 0900-1100, 1300-1440.
 
 
 Thank you."
In-process	Please see your sponsor/CSS to schedule an appointment for the Welcome Center.
"I have an inbound member who is joined spouse. He does not have to ROM, but his spouse does. Is he permitted to delay his finance inprocessing date to align with his spouse's date so they can attend together, or will he have to complete his finance inprocessing right away since he is not required to ROM?
 
 
 V/r,
 
 SMSgt Sarah Bright"	
The TLE Claim Worksheet says that a Non-Availability Statement is required if I am filing for reimbursement for off-base quarters. If I've already made off-base arrangements and the rate is cheaper than on-base lodging, do I still require a Non-A to file my claim?	Yes. Military members are always directed to lodge on-base first.
"Good Afternoon,
 
 Are there any plans to do in-person travel voucher in-processing again soon?"	
What documents and information is required to submit via CSP to properly out-process Joint Base San Antonio.	"Employee must submit the following documents through the Comptroller Services Portal:
 
 
 Base Out-Processing Checklist properly filled out with all required information.
 Employee Time And Attendance Report from ATAAPS (pulled by Timekeeper using the REPORTS link in ATAAPS after profile has been closed and time has been concurred and certified).
 
 
 Additional information if not provided on checklist:
 
 
 Type of Out-Processing and effective date of action
 Resignation (YYYYMMDD)
 Retirement (YYYYMMDD)
 Transfer: Within Agency or Outside Agency (YYYYMMDD) 
 **Note: for transfers the effective date will always be the end of the pay period."
New to 307 BW and need to apply for a GTC or have account transfered.	"The attached document contains all instructions.Register for a DTMO Passport Account
 Complete Travel Card Program 101 TrainingComplete Statement of Understanding (member and supervisor must digitally sign.)Open GTC Application Process Guide and follow instructions carefully!Complete Citibank online application https://home.cards.citidirect.com. Have DoD ID # available (back of CAC). Electronic SoU and training certificate must be uploaded to complete the application.When card arrives, call bank 1-888-514-2922 to verify receipt and set up PIN. Follow all guidance when using the GTC. Contact the APC or supervisor for questions."
My AFSC qualifies for IDT travel reimbursement, what do I need to file the voucher?	"After verifying your AFSC is qualified for IDT travel reimbursement have your orders specialist (usually CSS) create the DD 1610 travel order in AROWS-R.
 
 
 These vouchers will process through RTS. You will file a DD1351-2 travel voucher through CSP. 
 
 
 
 
 You will need to provide:
 TDY Checklist
 Completed DD1351-2 signed by claimant and reviewer (supervisor) in block 20a and d
 DD 1610 (Travel order) for dates being claimed
 DD 1351-3 (Statement of Actual Expense) (if applicable)
 Receipts (if applicable) 
 
 
 
 NOTE: 
 The reimbursement guidelines outline in the JTR should be use for IDT outside Normal Commute as any other TDY expense requirements. The expense that are claimed should not be paid just because it’s not over the max reimbursement expense of $500 without applying the reimbursement entitlements outline in the JTR.
 
 If member drive and park at the terminal. The parking expense is reimbursed up to the cost of two one-way taxi fare as stated in table 2-13 of the JTR. You can used Taxi Finder to verify taxi fare.
 
 If the reservist do not make travel arrangements with the TMC they are limited to the TR cost of what the government would have paid. 
 
 If the rental car is not authorized on the order it is treated as POV and the traveler is reimbursed mileage from terminal to duty station."
Use attached when filing for Family Separation Pay (FSA). Older forms are considered obsolete and can not be used to update this entitlement.	Use attached when filing for Family Separation Pay (FSA). Older forms are considered obsolete and can not be used to update this entitlement.
"MILITARY – 
  Q. On the Deferred Social Security repayment being extended to 12 months, will DFAS auto set up the collection rate?
  Answer: DFAS will establish the collection rate for the 12 month collection period. There will be a difference between DJMS-AC and DJMS-RC collections. Given that members paid out of DJMS-RC have intermittent duty schedules, it was not feasible to split the deferred amount by equal dollar amounts, as some members will not be on consistent duty through the collection period. Debts will be set up in both DJMS-AC and DJMS-RC to collect the deferred OASDI, with LES remarks updating the debt balance through the collection period. DJMS-AC debts created will divide the deferred collections evenly among the 24 pay periods. DJMS-RC debts created will collect at a rate of 2% of net pay (vs the 6% originally planned when the collection period was 4 months). 
   
  Q. Does the minimum $50 per month repayment in the DoD FMR factor into the repayments? 
  Answer: No, does not apply to collection of taxes. We are using debt FIDs and TINs in the pay system as a mechanism to collect the deferred tax amounts. It was the most feasible way that we could accomplish within the pay system to allow for tracking and reporting.
   
  Q. Will a member have the option to accelerate repayment if they choose? 
  Answer:  No, with the volume of members with taxes deferred, adding this option would present too much risk.
   
  Q. If a member is due to separate or retire prior to 31 Dec 2021 will they have the balance due collected prior to separation? 
  Answer: For members separating in 2020 (during the deferral period), the debts will be established as Out of Service debts and collected through our Debt & Claims Management Office. For members separating in 2021, the remainder of the uncollected deferred amount will be collected from final pay. Any residual amount will be set up as an Out of Service debt.
   
 
 
 
 
  CIVILIAN –
  Q. On the Deferred Social Security repayment being extended to 12 months, will DFAS auto set up the collection rate?
  Answer: DFAS will establish collections at the 1/24th rate of the total deferral amount in DCPS.
   
  Q. Does the minimum $50 per month repayment in the DoD FMR factor into the repayments?
  Answer: No the debt collection does not apply to those that remain employees; these are not actually debt repayments, but collection of deferred taxes. We are using the debt module in DCPS, because that is the best means of tracking, but they are not actually debts until the employee separates.
   
  Q. Will an employee have the option to accelerate repayment if they choose?
  Answer: No, employees will not have an option for repayment if they remain employees paid by DFAS. With over a million employees with taxes deferred, adding in additional options presents too great a risk.
   
  Q. If an employee is due to separate or retire prior to 31 Dec 2021 will they have the balance due collected prior to separation?
  Answer: If the employee separates for whatever reason prior to full collection PPE 12/4/21, DCPS will attempt to collect the remainder from the employee’s final pay. If unable to collect the full amount, a debt will be established.
   
  Also, DFAS will be sending out an updated SMARTDOC to employees and will be updating the DFAS.mil Tax Deferral page with the new collection
  timeframe.
 
 Forms:
 No Forms were mandated – Executive Order… not eligible to opt-out 
 
 Links:
 IRS.gov 
 OPM.gov 
 www.dfas.mil/customerservice/ 
 https://mypay.dfas.mil/#/"	Above
Sick leave options	"Yes. The employee either needs to provide their last LES (if there was no break in service) or an SF1150 (if there was a break in service). The form(s) would need to be sent to Civilian Payroll to be processed.
 
 
 Forms:
 
 
 Links:
 https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/CFR-2021-title5-vol1/pdf/CFR-2021-title5-vol1-sec630-502.pdf"
Certifier hierarchy	"There are typically multiple certifiers on each roster. If someone’s supervisor is out, there should be an alternate available to take care of all timecards.
 
 
 Forms:
 
 Links:"
Advanced leave options	"The maximum amount of advanced sick leave a full-time employee may have to their credit at any one time is 240 hours (30 days) CPO is the approving authority
 Advanced Annual Leave…NTE the Amount of annual leave the employee will earn in the remainder of the current calendar year.
 
 
 Forms:
 
 
 Links:
 AFI 36-815
 Advanced Annual Leave Factsheet"
Pay opportunities	"The latest SF 50 of an employee’s career IS their “rate of pay” document. For new employees, it would be their agreed hire-on rate of pay that would be used to create their first SF-50 submitted to DFAS.
 
 
 Forms:
 Standard Form 50 (SF 50) – AFPC submits the latest SF-50 to DFAS.
 
 
 Links:
 https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/pay-leave/salaries-wages/"
Sick leave opportunities	"Sick leave cannot be paid out.
 
 
 Forms:
  
 Links:"
Annual Leave access	"You can check your use or lose on a non-government computer by logging into MyPay. You will need to have a CAC reader if you do not know your user name and password.
 
 
 Forms:
 
  
 Links:
 https://mypay.dfas.mil/#/"
"Q1: What kinds of costs are included as in-kind benefits to employees during PCS government funded moves?
  A1: Please refer to the document included labeled, ""PAG Civ Employee HHG Tax Debt"" for what was taxable before TCJA 2017 and what was added under TCJA on 1 Jan 2018.
   
   
  Q2: How many civilians are impacted for the 2020 tax year?
  A2: We had 1,258 civilian PCS moves in 202 as compared to 1,800 civilian PCS moves in 2019.
   
  Q3: Have the affected employees been notified? If not, when and how?
  A3: They will be notified in December via email.
   
  Q4: Can taxes associated with HHG income be taken out of PCS travel payments when employees file the travel vouchers?
  A4: No, the PCS voucher is filed at in-processing and the HHG costs are not available at that time.
   
  Q5: Will affected employees receive end-of-year W2s that show the income and taxes paid?
  A5: Yes, affected employees will receive a travel W-2 at the end of the year that will include the increase in gross income and taxes for all PCS-related vouchers filed and HHGs. Tax year 2020 W-2s will be mailed to employees and also available through myPay by the end of January.
   
  Q6: Can civilians file RITA claims to recover the additional tax levied against them?
  A6: Yes, civilians are encouraged to file their RITA voucher after they file their annual tax return. Note: This is not a 100-percent dollar for dollar offset as each individual’s tax situation is unique.
   
  Q7: Should employees wait for their RITA claims to be resolved before beginning to pay back the Air Force?
  A7: No, suspending the repayment of the indebtedness is not an option. The employee can establish the repayment plan and make the required payments and then once the RITA voucher is settled the employee can make a lump sum payment to pay off the debt.
   
  Q8: If the Act took effect in 2017, how were civilians who PCS’d impacted during 2018 and 2019?
  A8: In 2018 and 2019, civilians who had HHG taxes due had to pay them direct to the IRS. This may have included any interest and penalties the IRS applies to debts. This new Air Force plan ensures employees are not charged interest and penalties
   
  Q9: Is there a possibility for the Air Force to cancel the debt?
  A9: No, the Air Force doesn’t have the authority to waive a tax debt.
   
  Q10: Why did the Air Force delay reporting HHG income and taxes to the IRS in 2018 and 2019?
  A10: Due to the law change taking place in December 2017, DoD did not have a way to capture the costs and report them. This was a DoD problem in 2018 and 2019.
   
  Q11: Does the OASDI deferral impact this situation?
  A11: No, the OASDI is based on an employee’s base pay for taxes, so it’s not part of the OASDI deferral act.
 
 Forms:
  
 Links:
 https://www.dfas.mil/Portals/98/Documents/Civilian%20Employees/Third_Party_Payments%20Fact%20Sheet_Feb%202020.pdf?ver=2020-03-30-080031-277
 
 https://www.dfas.mil/CivilianEmployees/civrelo/Civilian-Moving-Expenses-Tax-Deduction/"	Above
Is it required to come to Shaw Finance when it is time to leave my permanent duty station?	Members who are PCSing do not have to contact Shaw Finance prior to departure. The only personnel who require a briefing are those who are retiring or separating.
What steps must I take to inprocess with Shaw?	"All permanent party members who are physically at Shaw or McEntire will attend an in person briefing. Please use the link below to sign up for a briefing.
 
 
 https://20cpts.setmore.com/bookclass
 
 
 Geographically Separated Units (GSUs) will inprocess through CSP."
An authorized expense was not reimbursed on a travel voucher.	"For previously claimed expenses:Submit a CSP ticket requesting a supplemental payment.The ticket description should contain:Unpaid expenseOrder number (Block 22 on DD1610, Block 32 on DD938)Split disbursement amount (if applicable)ex. ""I was not reimbursed for an authorized rental car on my voucher. The order number was D97178. My GTC has a balance of $800, please send that amount to the card.""If expense was not claimed due to missing backup documentation, please provide receipts.For Previously unclaimed expenses:Submit a CSP ticket requesting a supplemental payment.The ticket description should contain:Unpaid expenseOrder number (Block 22 on DD1610, Block 32 on DD938)Split disbursement amount (if applicable)ex. ""I was not reimbursed for an unclaimed parking expense on my voucher. The order number was D97178. My GTC has a balance of $80, please send that amount to the card.""File a new 1351-2 claiming all expenses even if they were previously reimbursed.Provide ALL required receiptsPer AFFSC Buisiness rules:A supplemental voucher resulting from unclaimed expenses requires:- New DD Form 1351-2, signed and dated by the member and the supervisor. The approving official signature is also required for after-the-fact expense approvals.- Receipts pertaining to supplemental- Any other auditable documents required to support the claim- TDY orders (front and back and amendments)"
DSG In-processing from another Air National Guard unit.	A guard-to-guard transfer requires the member to fill out the attached in-processing packet. Also, please attach a copy of a bank check (or screen shot of banking details that include checking and routing numbers) to verify your banking details. In addition, if you are married you will need to provide a copy of your marriage certificate, and if you have dependents but not married you will need to provide a birth certificate of your youngest child. This is needed to verify your BAH rate that you will qualify for (either no dependents or with dependents).
Payback for Military Time	"Buy back military time. Work with personnel to fill out paperwork. 
 
 
 Forms:
 Military Deposit Worksheet OPM Form 1514
 Military Service Deposit Election OPM Form 1515
 SF1150
 
 
 Links: 
 https://safe.menlosecurity.com/doc/docview/viewer/docNB2A556E73B2385ece56bfe0788fd19f8b24468d7d9599315ff72fe64d38f6d72870b6c33928a
 
 https://wss.apan.org/public/DFASPayroll/Knowledge%20Tree/Military%20Service%20Deposits.aspx"
Taxes State/Federal changes	"All adjustments can be made in MyPay
 
 
 Forms:
 
 
 Links: 
 https://mypay.dfas.mil/"
DTS – Student Dependent Travel	"A Student may only receive a transportation allowance under an Invitational Travel Allowance.
 
 
 Forms: 
 DD Form 1351-2
 
 
 Links: 
 https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/Docs/Dependent_Travel_Information_Paper.pdf"
DTS – LOA Assistance	"Squadron RAs and FDTAs will provide LOA for travelers to use.
 
 
 Forms:
 
 Links: 
 Creating New LOA: https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/Docs/Establish_LOAs_for_the_New_Year.pdf"
The member account has been locked for any reason and they have not set-up their security questions for self un-locking.	"If creating an inquiry to unlock your AROWS account, select the ""Travel Pay"" category and the ""Other"" sub category. Make sure to include the words AROWS Unlock in the title. We will also need the last 5 digits of your social security number somewhere in your inquiry."
I am currently deployed and need to file and interim voucher to pay for lodging and airfare prior to arriving at my deployed location.	"You will need to provide:
 TDY Checklist
 Completed DD1351-2 signed by claimant in block 20a
 AF Form 938 (activation orders)
 CED orders
 Signed direct deposit form
 Receipts"
The regulation has changed on this subject. Prior to the DAFMAN 65-601 being established, chapter 10 of AFI 65 601 allowed for commanders, chiefs or first sergeants to attend PME graduation ceremonies in a funded TDY status. AFI 65-601 was rewritten and scaled down and was replaced with the DAFMAN 65-601. Chapters 5 and 11 of DAFMAN 65-601 provides guidance on funded TDY travel. PME graduation ceremonies (or any formal training graduations) are no longer among the ceremonies that members may travel in a funded TDY status. The authorization to attend in a permissive TDY status (unfunded) may still exist in the 36-3003, but this category of travel is no longer funded.	BLUF: Funded travel to graduation ceremonies are no longer authorized
"BACKGROUND: During the FSO Worldwide FM Training Workshop, it was brought up that many of the Rental Car companies are charging an “Age Fee” upon rental of the vehicle. This fee could be shown and included on the rental car receipt.
 
 
 DTMO requests that any traveler who is incorrectly charged this age fee submit a request for assistance and supporting documentation through the Rental Vehicle Assistance. To submit a request for assistance, a traveler should click “Report an Accident” on the right side of this page:https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/site/rentalCar.cfm. DTMO is also working to revise the language on this page to make it clearer that the Rental Vehicle Assistance Tool can also be used to correct vendor overcharges such as the kind you identified. Please ensure to include the TANUM and copy of the legible rental car receipt, not the agreement form provided by the rental car company."	BLUF: Any vendor location that participates in the U.S. Government Rental Car Program should not charge DOD travelers a young driver fee, an underage fee, or any other fee for authorized drivers as dictated by the U.S. Government Rental Car Agreement.
Are Service Members and Civilian Employees exempt from hotel or occupancy taxes?	Several states and cities have exempted Service members and civilian employees from paying a hotel occupancy tax when certain requirements are met. For more information and a list of locations offering tax exemptions, please visit theGSA website or access the GSA list from the DTMO website by clicking on State Tax Exemption Listings.
Can I pull out cash from an ATM while TDY?	"DoDI 5154.31V4:
 
 
 Travelers may use their travel card at ATMs to obtain cash needed to pay for “out-of-pocket” travel related expenses. Valid “out-of-pocket” travel related expenses are those that cannot be charged on the travel card (see section 040603 for examples).
 
 
 Expenses, including meals, incurred at a vendor that does not accept the travel card, such as government dining facilities, coin-operated parking meters, toll booths, laundry facilities, official local and long distance phone calls, etc. are exempt from the mandatory use of the travel card (IBA). However, since cardholders are required to use the travel card for all official travel related expenses, they should withdraw cash from an ATM to pay for these expenses, where practicable."
If I was TDY and lodged on base in Gov’t Qtrs, on orders, for under 30 days and have to E-certify, do I mark “in Gov’t Qtrs” on the E-certification?	No. You are not considered in “Gov’t Qtrs” when TDY. Always mark “NOT in Gov’t Qtrs” to ensure your BAH is paid correctly.
What is the standard processing procedures for service members when dealing with 988's Leave Charge Forms?	"Prior to taking your leave, you will first fill out the 988 Part 1, which will be signed by yourself and your supervisor. This must be turned into the CPTF to acquire a Leave Authorization Number prior to the start of your leave.
 
 
 When you return from leave, you will complete the 988 Part 3, which will annotate if no or any changes will be made to the original Part 1 request. Once signed by yourself and your supervisor, this will be turned into the CPTF who will take the Part 1 and Part 3 combined to finally charge your account the proper leave taken. 
 
 
 The Part 2 is for your own personal records to keep track of leave used in case there is a lag in the system or if your leave charge has been delayed."
How much time do I have as the Service Member to sign and submit my DTS voucher when I return from my TDY?	"You have 5 days from the time you return from your trip to submit your travel voucher. If you do not signed your voucher within 5 days, you will show up on a report that is worked monthly. These reports are then sent to the supervisor and leadership distro email inboxes for follow up and to take action as needed. 
 
 
 
 
 Reference:
 DoDFMR 7000.14-R Volume 9:
 4.5.1. General. When a travel advance is authorized, it must be monitored to ensure that a corresponding travel claim is filed within 5 working days of the traveler’s return to or arrival at the permanent duty station (PDS), or immediately when the orders are canceled. Travelers whose TDY extends beyond 30 days may file travel claims within 5 working days after the end of every 30 calendar day period or travel accrual payments may be provided in accordance with service-specific regulations.
 
 
 4.5.2.2. Other Travelers. Each DoD Component must ensure that it has a process to monitor travelers’ advances. Issue a letter advising travelers of his or her responsibility to submit travel claims and/or repay advances. On the 46th day after the traveler’s estimated date of return/arrival, if no response to the letter has been received, then collect from the traveler’s pay account."
What is the standard AROWS E-Certification process?	"There are a few processes for e-certification:
 - For Short Tours (29 days or less), the service member will log into AROWS and sign the statement of duty on or after the last day of the order. 
 
 
 - For Long Tours (30 days or more) excluding BMT/NPS TTS/NPS MEST & Permanent AGR, the service member will sign the statement of duty on or after the first day of the order which will start the payment process.
 
 
 - For Long Tours for BMT, NPS TTS, and NPS MEST, e-certification is not required as most NPS members do not have access to the system or do not have a CAC to sign in and e-certify their orders for pay. The CPTF will continue to track these orders and we will work with BETM consistently to have Start Tour paperwork filled out; we will then process pay manually for the members. 
 
 
 - For Permanent AGR Orders, there is no e-certification allowed as these orders are processed in a different system entirely and manually gained and worked by the CPTF."
ATAAPS Certifier	"ATAAPS Certifier
  
 1. Request access in FAMS, once completed submit the DAO101 , CFI 100, FOB 105 certificates and the Form 577 (generated in FAMS)
 o Request Appointment -> Departmental Accountable Official -> Time and Attendance Certifier -> Complete Training -> Request Appointment (Lt Kyle Ames)
 2. Complete 20.01 Certifier Training for ATAAPS (attachment located below)
 o Sign/date and PDF the second to final page of the slide and submit with inquiry 
 
 
 
 FAMS URLhttps://fams.cce.af.mil on Chrome Browser
 How to initiate a 577 request:https://fams.cce.af.mil/pub/content/saffm/en/help/support/articles/Initiate-an-Appointment.html
 
 
 How to access DAO 101 training:https://fams.cce.af.mil/pub/content/saffm/en/help/support/articles/AppoinTNTermination0.html"
What is a valid receipt for a voucher?	"Valid receipts are required for airfare, lodging and expenses of $75 or more. DTMO has provided some helpful information to help travelers understand what constitutes a valid receipt. Paid TDY vouchers with invalid receipts are being flagged by DFAS stating invalid receipts were submitted under expenses in DTS. These instances must be corrected. As a reminder, GTCC statements, flight itineraries, rental car reservation invoices and hotel reservations are not valid receipts.
 Travelers are advised to retain ALL receipts for tax or other purposes. DoD Financial Management Regulation, Vol 9, “Travel Policy,” requires an itemized receipt for each lodging expense, regardless of the amount, and any individual expenditure of $75 or more."
I am currently on an order that is greater than 45 days, what do i need to file to have my GTC balance paid?	"If your order is in DTS:
 Amend your DTS authorization
 Verify the itinerary reflects the entire TDY length
 Add authorized expenses
 Adjust per-diem to reflect correct entitlements
 on the accounting screen click the ""schedule partial payments"" button
 Sign the authorization
 NOTE:
 Ensure that all expenses are accurate any overpayment will result in a travel debt when the final voucher is filed.
 
 
 If your voucher is through RTS (Paper)
 Create a new inquiry in CSP
 You will need to provide:
 TDY Checklist
 Completed DD1351-2 signed by claimant in block 20a
 AF Form 938 (activation orders)
 Signed direct deposit form (IF YOU HAVEN'T FILED A PAPER VOUCHER IN 12 MONTHS)
 Receipts"
Orders are often modified to extend or curtail tour dates. When orders are modified, they do NOT automatically flow into the military pay system. Order modifications must be submitted to the Comptroller Flight for payment to be processed.	Submit your order modification via CSP for payment to be processed.
My dependency status has changed, I would like to have it corrected to reflect the correct rate.	"Everyone: Fill out an AF Form 594, lines 1-9, to include a signature and date on the bottom of the form. Please also ensure to include all of your dependents in block 8. 
 
 
 
 
 Married: Include a valid copy of your marriage certificate, not marriage license. 
 
 
 Divorced: A copy of your divorce decree.
 
 
 Child: A copy of the child's birth certificate. 
 
 
 A child born through marriage and you are now divorced attempting to claim your child: Divorce decree stating that you are paying child support with the amount, or showing that you have primary custody."
I just finished a 31 day order and have 2.5 days left on my record. I would like to sell it back.	Please fill out Part I, Identification Data. ETS / DOS can be left blank. Please fill out Part IV to include the order number, when the order ends, as well as checkbox A, the amount of days to be sold. Lastly, please sign and date in Part V
Short tours (30 days or less) qualify for BAH II. Long tours (31 days or more) qualify for BAH I. EXCEPTION: Contingency orders qualify for BAH I regardless of order duration.	Submit your affected LES and military orders via CSP for payment to be reviewed.
Family Separation Allowance is an entitlement payable to members TDY and separated from their dependents for over 30 days. FSA is payable at $250 per month, prorated to the day.	Submit a DD1561 and applicable DTS document (authorization or voucher) via CSP for payment to be processed.
Regularly scheduled drills (RSD), rescheduled drills (RD), additional flight training periods (AFTP), etc, are all inactive duty training (IDT). RSD pay is issued after a unit’s drill roster fully routes for signature. All other IDT must be e-certified on AROWS.	Contact your CSS or submit ANG105S via CSP for payment to be processed.
The Statement of Duty for all active duty orders must be e-certified on AROWS to initiate payment.	Access AROWS and e-certify your Statement of Duty. NOTE: Temporary AGR orders are unable to be e-certified on AROWS and must be submitted via CSP. AROWS Link
Short tours (30 days or less) can only be signed on or after the last day of the orders. Long tours (31 days or more) can be signed on or after the first day of the orders. EXCEPTION: 30 day orders can be signed on or after the first day of the orders.	Access AROWS on or after the day your Statement of Duty generates (see description). NOTE: Temporary AGR orders are unable to be e-certified on AROWS and must be submitted via CSP. AROWS Link
For both initial access and locked myPay profiles, members must meet with a myPay Trusted Agent to be issued a temporary username and password.	Request to schedule an in-person appointment with a myPay Trusted Agent via CSP.
W2s are generated on myPay in January or February of the following tax year. Your FSO does not have access to your W2.	W2s can be accessed via myPay. MyPay Link
All out-processors must meet with their finance unit for and out-processing brief, submit a copy of military orders, and complete travel authorization (if applicable).	Schedule an appointment via CSP to meet with a Financial Management Technician.
Debt collection actions are suspended three months to provide affected members due process. During this time, members may inquire about and contest the debts validity. Debts will automatically collect after the suspension period ends.	Debts automatically collect at 2/3rds of taxable earnings after the due process period. To adjust the collection rate, contact your FSO via CSP.
myPay offers self-service actions that allow members to update their military pay information.	Access myPay to adjust your military pay information. MyPay Link
Members can opt into the Family Servicemember’s Group Life Insurance for their dependents on MilConnect. It is an additional life insurance premium members can elect into, to provide compensation for the death of a dependent. MilConnect sometimes does not automatically initiate collection. When this occurs, your FSO must submit a CMS case on your behalf.	Submit a copy of your SOES (coverage certificate from MilConnect) via CSP for a CMS case to be created on your behalf.
The HARM office submits Aeronautical Orders (AO) for aircrew members who qualify for flight pay.	Contact HARM office to inquire about AO case status.
Members built into the active duty pay system may initiate allotment on myPay. DSG members cannot establish allotments due to the irregularity of their payments.	Qualifying members can access myPay to initiate allotments (see description).
Card keeps declining	Contact your Resource Advisor to verify it their enough funds on the card. If there aren't the Resource will need to submit a AF Form 4009 in DEAMS. If there is enough money and it is still declining, submit a ticket to Accounting.
Understanding the difference between a Travel Authorization & Travel Voucher.	"An Authorization captures information regarding an upcoming TDY (locations, cost-estimates, travel information). Is a mean of informing everyone who needs to know the When, Where, and How’s of your trip. Authorizations should be build and fully approved prior to trip’s start date.
 Completing an Authorization Step by Step
 
 
 
 A Voucher is a claim for reimbursement of actual expenses you incurred and payment of allowances you earned while you were TDY. You will not be able to create a voucher on DTS without a fully approved Authorization.
 Completing a Voucher Step by Step"
LOAs will vary depending on the type of travel being performed.	Travelers should first check with the squadron’s ODTA before contacting Finance for DTS assistance.
Cross orgs are used when a member goes TDY for another unit who will pay for the travel.	The member must provide their SSN to their POC at the other unit. Only the owning unit can cross a member into their LOA.
When triggered on an authorization/voucher the DTS Constructed Travel pre-audit indicates that a constructed travel worksheet (CTW) may be required.	"A CTW is required when the traveler chooses a mode of transportation that differs from the standard. A CTW is not required if your trip meets one of the following conditions:
 1. You will use the transportation mode the AO will authorize or direct on every travel leg. The AO will
 Usually authorize or direct you to use commercial air, unless a local policy dictates otherwise.
 2. You will use your privately owned vehicle (POV) – automobile or motorcycle only – for every travel
 Leg that is 400 or fewer miles, per the Defense Table of Official Distance (DTOD).
 3. Government transportation is authorized or directed.
 CTW Worksheets"
Using another unit’s days in AROWS.	The other unit will not send their days to the 105th. The CSS will use the dropdown menu in AROWS when selecting days to choose the other unit’s resources. Contact FSS for specific guidance on creating orders in AROWS.
A member is on MPA days and will need to use MAJCOM travel funds.	If the MAJCOM is ACC or AMC, the first step is for the RA to submit the MAJCOM request form. The form is submitted to the budget office who will submit it to the MAJCOM for funding. The CSS will file the M4s in the M4’s folder: \\RSDQ-FS-001V\wing\Wing\Shared_Data\RA Budget Info\07 M4S Documents DO NOT DELETE. Once the funding is received, the LOA will be created and provided to the member. If the MAJCOM is not ACC or AMC, the member will receive the cross org from the MAJCOM providing the MPA days. The member will need to contact their POC at the MAJCOM and the CSS will file the M4s in the M4s folder.
The member is going on a TWCF mission and requires the TWCF LOA in DTS.	The CSS will file the M4s in the folder: \\RSDQ-FS-001V\wing\Wing\Shared_Data\RA Budget Info\07 M4S Documents DO NOT DELETE.  Once the M4s is filed, the CSS will send notification to the Budget Office via CSP that the M4s is filed and list the members needing the cross org.
A member needs access to a 105th LOA in DTS that is not under their own squadron.	The RA of the squadron will contact the Budget Office via CSP and provide the member’s SSN and name of the LOA needed.
The RA is approving authorizations/vouchers in DTS and needs to transfer funds between lines for the transaction to go through.	The RA will send a request to the Budget Office via CSP and state the amount to move from and to and the names of the LOA’s being affected.
Newly appointed RAs need to receive training from the budget office.	The RA will use the following link to request a date/time with the budget officer:Sign-Up Genius Link
A member’s DTS authorization/voucher was approved, but subsequently received an error code.	Notify the Budget Office via CSP with the name of the error, the order TANUM, travel dates, member’s name. The Budget Office will research the error code and submit a helpdesk ticket if needed.
The RA needs to make a supply purchase in ILS.	The RA will contact the Budget Office via CSP and state their RCCC, ILS ORG/PFMR numbers, amount of the budget load needed. If the RA does not have funds loaded to their legacy LOA, they will need to state that they need to also transfer funds from DEAMS to Legacy.
A squadron does not have enough AT days for projected training events and is requesting additional AT days/dollars.	The first step is for the squadron RA to contact the Group RA to request Group resources be re-distributed to the squadron in need. If the Group RA is able to complete the request with available Group resources, the Group RA will send a request to the Budget Office via CSP to transfer resources.
The RA has a member who has already completed 30 days of AT and needs additional training days.	The RA will complete the ST TV request form found in CSP and submit it to the Budget Office via CSP.
A member needs to come in for at least 4 hours of training outside of the RSD.	The RA will completed the IAD worksheet and submit it to the Budget Office via CSP. If the member does not have any RDs to complete, the Budget Office will load the ATP/RMP periods to the squadron’s AROWS line. If the member has not completed all RSDs, the RA will be notified to have the member complete all RSD periods before requesting additional IAD.
The RA is confused about the number of AT days received.	NGB does not send the unit 15 days of AT per DSG/DST. The unit must provide each member with 15 active military days which can be AGR, Temp AGR, AT, ST, School, MEST, BMT, ADOS, or MPA. It is the responsibility of the RA and CCMs to ensure that each member is afforded 15 active military days before other members receive additional active military days.
The RA has a possible mixing of appropriations concern.	If the situation falls into one of the exception to policy in AFMAN 65-01 the MAJCOM program manager can allow the member to remain on their days and use the squadron’s O&M TDY LOA in DTS.
The RA lacks one type of AT day but has plenty of another and wants to convert them.	No, we cannot convert officer/enlisted days locally. The first step is to see if another squadron within your Group can trade days with you. If not, the RA will send a request to the Budget Office for a conversion with NGB.
The CSS is not able to complete their RSD roster.	AROWS is an A1/FSS system. You must contact FSS for assistance with AROWS.
The RA needs UFR guidance.	Yes, you must obtain signatures from each area listed.
The RA needs UFR guidance.	No, you do not need to complete the UFR package for MILPERS resources. Submit your request for days/dollars to the Budget Office via CSP. Include a brief description/justification/mission impact along with need by date.
The RA has an issue with resources.	No, you cannot mix AT travel funds with special training dollars. Your type of days and WUC code must match to the type of dollars and ESP code.
Updating electronic funds transfer (EFT) information on DTS profile after a voucher has been submitted.	"Updating your personal EFT information on your DTS profile after a voucher has been fully processed will not change the information on the voucher. Your voucher will receive an “EFT RETURNED’ status or the funds will still be associated with your old account.
 In order to correct this you’ll have to update the information within the voucher by following the following steps: How to correct EFT Returns"
The Civilian pay technicians are able to gain new technicians into the pay system at base level as soon as HQ gains the new technicians at State level. This typically happens the second Wednesday of the pay period.	Typically, you will be paid within the same pay period you started. However, sometimes a new technician may be paid the second pay period after they started. If this is the case, you will be retro paid everything you were entitled to from the first pay period.
The TSP is a defined contribution plan, meaning that the retirement income you receive from your TSP account will depend on how much you (and your agency or service if you’re eligible to receive agency or service contributions) put into your account during your working years and your earnings over that period of time.	You can set up your TSP contributions on the TSP website at https://www.tsp.gov/
Technicians may be entitled to holiday pay, however; the technician is required to be in a pay status on their scheduled workdays either before or after a holiday.	Technicians are entitled to federal holiday pay on approved Federal Holidays. For ATAAPS purposes Holidays should be coded Holiday Leave (LH) hours. For hours in which a technician worked timecards should be coded one of the following HE, HF, HG, HS, or HT, but not HC.
Technicians performing military duty must be in a leave status from the technician program.	"Permanent technicians, and temporary technicians over 90 days are entitled to Military leave (LM) otherwise timecards should be coded Military Furlough (KG), LWOP -Leave without pay (KA), or other paid leave status.
 
 
 
 *It is important technicians are mindful of their timecards status while performing military duties. Receiving compensation in a paid status (i.e. RG, RF, RS, etc) is considered a dual compensation condition which is NOT authorized and could result in a debt."
Compensatory Time is time earned that can be used for hours paid at a later time.	"Yes, with supervisor approval, technicians are authorized compensatory time for hours worked in addition to their scheduled hours. Use code CE in ATAAPS.
 
 
 
 * Compensatory time must be used within one year from the date earned (26 pay periods) or the technician will forfeit it!"
Timecards can be entered in ATAAPS by the member and/or the Timekeeper.	Ultimately the member is responsible for ensuring their timecards are entered in ATAAPS prior to the close of the pay period. Timekeepers are available for assistance with time inputs and can answer your questions regarding type codes. In a member's absence, the Timekeepers may also complete them in ATAAPS.
Technicians accrue various types of leave over the course of their employment. However, only certain leave balances carryover when a technician transfers or comes back to the technician program.	You need to inform the Base CSR upon check in that you previously held a technician position. They will perform the steps of requesting your previous leave balances from DFAS to have them pulled over to your current record.
Technicians are authorized leave for birth events, adoptions and fostering under the FMLA.	Requests for eligibility approval must go through HRO. Please contact FSS to start the process. Once approved, the HRO will forward these documents to the CSR who will input the leave to your record.
Each base has a central coordinator for Civilian Pay matters.	The Base CSR (Customer Service Representative) is the first stop for questions and information relating specifically to your pay. Administrative questions should be directed to the FSS/HRO.
Completed RTS Voucher	"1. All docs must be in ONE PDF, not Portfolio
 
 2. A complete set of your orders, including mods, must be provided
 3. Certified orders are required for final/supplemental vouchers
 4. All pages of the DD Form 1351-2/1351-2C must be included
 5. All receipts as required
 6. Any approved leave taken during long tours (orders 31 days or over); at minimum, leave must be accounted for in the remarks section
 *Any incomplete vouchers will not be processed
 *Do not send duplicates"
When I attach PDF copy of AROWS orders I get error.	"Best way to attach clear PDF of AROWS order is to the the Print function then select ""Microsoft Print to PDF"", then attach file. Alternate method would be to print then use scanner to create copy."
An Organizational Defense Travel Administrator (ODTA) is the Squadron level manager for DTS processing. Your ODTA is the first person you should contact to get assistance for inputting and processing DTS authorizations and vouchers.	A listing of the ODTAs for the 119 Wing is on the Travel SharePoint.
A myPay Profile is required for all Military Members to gain access to important financial data such as their LES, Tax documents, Travel Voucher Advice of Payment, & personal information updates that are pay effecting changes.	"Once a new member has returned from Technical School and the Communications Squadron has created their email they can navigate to the myPay website utilizing the link under ""Quick Links"". Once the member is on the website they will look to the right scroll down to ""New User"" and select the blue button labeled ""Create your myPay Profile"" then follow the prompts."
Below is a breakdown of entitlements based on the number of days certified on AROWS order.	"29 days or less (Base Pay, BAS, BAH II) certified for pay on last day of order
 30 day order ONLY (Base Pay, BAS, BAH II) certified for pay on first day of order member will receive pay at 15 day point
 31 day order or more (Base Pay, BAS, BAH I) certified for pay on first day
 *Members on AT orders can add (1) round-trip mileage claim via AROWS upon e-certification for pay
 Orders 179 or less – members are paid BAH using HOR zip code
 Orders 180 or more – members are paid BAH using PDS zip code BAH"
myPay is an innovative, automated system that puts you in control of processing certain discretionary pay data items without using paper forms. You can also get your pay and tax statements, and travel advice of payment using myPay.	Visit myPay, under Pay Changes select direct deposit link.
You received a new GTC because your current one is about to expire.	"Login to DTS: https://dtsproweb.defensetravel.osd.mil/dts-app/pubsite/all/view/In the upper right corner of the screen, click on your name and then select ""My Profile""On the new window, under the ""Accounting"" header, select ""EFT and Credit Card Accounts""Update your information as necessary and click the ""Save' button at the bottom of the window."
Follow instructions below after logging into AROWS https://arows.sscno.nmci.navy.mil/arows/secure/login.jsp	From the home page, click the drop-down menu at the top left and select “Member”.On the left-hand side, navigate to “Statement of Duty” à “Create”Scroll through each screen, selecting the applicable dependent housing and dependent status. Make sure to select “member was not assigned government housing/government dorms” to ensure that BAH I/BAH II is paid. Otherwise, the member will receive BAH Partial.
Example: I want to change my State of Legal Residence from TX to MA. Complete DD 2058 and send to Finance via CSP.	Complete DD Form 2058 and submit CSP Inquiry with DD Form 2058 completely filled out.
Upon submission of my Marriage Certificate did it update mypay record	No your marriage certificate does not flow to the pay system. In order to receive your new BAH rate you need to turn in a copy of your marriage certificate to FM.
Follow this link to determine your gross pay amount: Military Pay Calculator | Military.com	Follow this link to determine your gross pay amount: Military Pay Calculator | Military.com
Proper GTC (government travel card) use.	NO. You can only get reimbursed for expenses on your travel authorization. If an expense is on someone else's travel authorization, then only they can get reimbursed and they should pay using their GTC.
What signatures are accepted on documents submitted to Finance?	"Digitally signed documents that are printed may not be used for official
 purposes. Financial documents must be digitally signed by a CAC (not printed) or wet signed.
 
 
 AFMAN 65-101
 1.4. Signature Acceptance.
 1.4.1. Wet Signature Acceptance.
 1.4.1.1. Wet signatures are acceptable on any printed document.
 1.4.1.2. Documents may be submitted with “wet” signatures or digital signatures.
 
 1.4.1.3. It is not permissible to have a mixture of wet and digital signatures on any
 document.
 1.4.1.4. All documents must be legible.
 1.4.1.5. Documents may be prepared in ink or using a computer.
 1.4.1.6. Corrections may be made with “pen and ink”. Draw a single line through the
 incorrect entry and initial; do not obliterate the original entry.
 1.4.1.7. White out or corrective tape will not be used.
 1.4.2. Electronic Signature Acceptance.
 1.4.2.1. An electronic signature is acceptable on any digitally signed document.
 1.4.2.2. Financial documents with the typed word “//SIGNED//” will not be accepted as
 a valid certified or approved document.
 1.4.2.3. All financial documents must be signed using a DoD Public Key Infrastructure
 (PKI) CAC certificate utilizing one of the Air Force approved digital signature
 applications, or manually signed with a written “pen and ink” signature as proper
 methods of authentication as defined in AFI 33-321, Authentication of Air Force
 Records.
 1.4.2.4. Digitally signed documents that are printed may not be used for official
 purposes."
When a ticket is created, Finance may have to return it to the customer for more information. It is imperative that the case is sent back to Finance as instructed.	A traditional member has until the Monday after the next Drill to reply and Full-Time members (Technician/AGR) have 7 calendar days. Without a response, the case will be resolved without action. If the member requires action, a new case will need to be opened.
When a ticket is created, Finance may have to return it to the customer for more information. It is imperative that the case is sent back to Finance as instructed.	A traditional member has until the Monday after the next Drill to reply and Full-Time members (Technician/AGR) have 7 calendar days. Without a response, the case will be resolved without action. If the member requires action, a new case will need to be opened.
When do I need to complete BAH Form 594 to certify my dependency status?	Whenever your dependency status changes. If you become a parent, are newly married, become divorced, or are widowed then you need to fill out a 594 and provide supporting documentation.
I moved. What do I do now?	You need to go to FSS and update your address in DEERS. This is most important since you BAH Address that is on your military orders from AROWS is pulled from DEERS. You also need to update your address in myPay, DTS, Citi, TSP, and vMPF. If you are changing states you will also need to fill out DD2058 to adjust state taxes.
I moved and need to update my address.	"1. You need to update your address in MyPay, TSP, and DTS
 2. To update in MyPay:Please submit a CSP ticket with AF594, AF1745 and Proof of Primary Residence (AF1745 and Proof of Primary Residence Memo with acceptable forms of proof are linked to this questions)We only have access to change it in MyPay, no other systems
 3. To update in DTS, log into DTS and change it there
 4. To update in TSP, log into TSP.gov and change it there
 5. Make sure you reach out to Personnel and ask what you need to do to change it in there systems.***"
Guidance on whether or not you are allowed to take leave if on TDY. See attached document for more thorough explanation and references.	"You must be in a leave status to receive reimbursement for round trip travel for a TDY.
 
 
 Active Guard/Reserve (AGR):
 DTS – book entire airfare with the TMC
 -The itinerary needs to include all dates (leave & official travel)
 -Ensure leave is selected on the per diem tab
 -Add 988 to voucher
 Reimbursement – full airfare
 
 Technicians (T5 & T32): When traveling on O&M LOA
 DTS – book entire airfare with the TMC
 -The itinerary needs to include all dates (leave & official travel)
 -Ensure leave is selected on the per diem tab
 -Add leave slip to voucher
 Reimbursement – full airfare
 
 Duty Status Guardsman (DSG) & Technicians in AT/ST status:
 Note: DSGs on long tour orders with a leave balance can use leave like an AGR within DTS.
 DTS – book one-way with the TMC & personal one-way outside DTS
 -The itinerary needs to include only official travel dates.
 -Add a note in “comments to approving official” of their personal travel.
 Reimbursement – the one-way ticket while on official travel"
Leave options for a death in a technician's family.	"No, technicians do not get bereavement leave. However, technicians may use up to 104 hours of sick leave a year in the bereavement of a family member. At no time can a technician use more leave than they have available. This may include the need for travel or dealing with appointments and business in associated with handling the estate of the deceased.
 
 
 When submitting a leave request through ATAAPS:
 -Type Hours: ""LS - Sick""
 -Purpose: ""DE - Family Care/Bereavement""
 -Remarks: write an explanation if you think the request needs clarification for your supervisor to approve
 
 
 References:
 MNGR 690-990-2, Leave and Hours of Duty, 5-5.b."
MPA/RPA/ADOS/Activation Mobilization orders 30 days or longer	"*IMPORTANT! YOU MUST ENSURE BLOCKS 36-44 OF THE AF FORM 938 ARE COMPLETED BY YOU AND YOUR SUPERVISOR IN THEIR ENTIRETY BEFORE SUBMITTING*
 
 
 Select ""Create Inquiry""
 
 
 Select “For Self” (info auto-populates) or “For Other”(creating inquiry for someone else, must have their info)
 
 Enter Subject Info (“Start Pay Order”)
 
 Category is “Military Pay”
 
 Sub Category is “Pre-Certified Order”
 
 
 Write in “Description” box. Give details of inquiry or any additional pertinent information we should know.
 
 Attach or Drag File to upload box
 
 
 
 Select “Submit” in upper right or bottom right."
How long does it take to process a Separation or Retirement inquiry? What is the process?	"TLR, 
 
 
 Due to manning impacts there will be a 5-7 business day turn around for completion of inquiries involving Retirement or Separation processing. Please complete the attached package prior to CSP inquiry submission to ensure that your inquiry is processed within a timely manner. Thank you.
 
 
 V/r, 
 
 
 Financial Operations Flight"
Your inquiry was closed but it was not fully resolved.	"You have 35 days to reopen a completed inquiry before the system will auto close it permanently.
 
 
 If your inquiry was closed without being fully completed, you can reopen the same inquiry without creating a new one. This will prevent you from having to start at the bottom of the list due to creating a new inquiry.
 
 
 Select the inquiry and select ""Reopen"" option in the upper right options."
DTS checklist updated Nov 2022.	DTS checklist for traveler assistance.
DTMO Valid receipt guidance.	What is a valid receipt guidance from DTMO.
What information is required for reimbursement of expenses?	"Itemized receipts are required for all lodging and any single purchase of $75 or more. (JTR par. 030301-A)
 
 
 Attached document Provides additional information for what qualifies as a ""valid"" receipt for reimbursement purposes."
What forms and who do I send those forms to in order to get access to DTS? What training do I need?	Look under Policy Memos & Guidelines to find your instructions.
I got a new bank account and want to update it for pay.	"1. You need to update your direct deposit in MyPay and DTS
 2. To update in MyPay, you need to change it in MyPayIf you can't change it in MyPay, please submit a CSP ticket with direct deposit form.We only have access to change it in MyPay, no other systems
 3. To update in DTS, log into DTS and change it there
 4. Do NOT close your old bank account until you see the direct deposit in your new bank account.***"
I just got married/had a child/had another child/got a divorce.	"1. Complete form 594. 
 2. Obtain proof of dependency documents, i.e. Marriage certificate, birth certificate, divorce decree (If claiming secondary dependents, please review: https://www.dfas.mil/MilitaryMembers/SecondaryDependency/secondarydependency_AirForce/)
 3. Upload 594 and proof into CSP
 4. Remember, with dependent pay will not start until the date the 594 is signed. No back pay will be given if you turn in your documents late. 
 5. Divorce: You will incur a debt if any overpayment was given. No dependency rate will start day divorce decree became effective. 
 5. Contact Personnel to know what to update with them."
Air BnB guidance	See attached memo concerning usable and reimbursement of Air BnB for lodging.
"Timekeepers Role
 
 - coordinate with certifiers ensuring all timecards are certified minimally by the Wednesday during week 2 of a pay period
 
 - ensure all compensatory time is claimed on the time card and must have acorrelating premium request approved
 
 - adjust timecards
 
 - CANNOT submit leave requests
 
 - CANNOT concur your timecard
 
 - CANNOT approve/disapprove leave"	"Requirements for ATAAPS Timekeeper:
 
 
 1. DD2875
 
 -Completed with all 3 signatures. Which team(s) will you need access to as a Timekeeper? Must annotate in block 13.
 
 2. Annual Timekeeper training certificate
 -Digitally sign and submit certificate of completion ONLY the last page
 
 3. NGB Required training
 
 -Digitally sign and submit certificate of completion ONLY the last page
 
 4. Annual Specialized PII Training Requirements
 
 https://dl.cyber.mil/trn/online/disa_pii_v40_final_web/launch.html"
"Certifiers Role
 - ensure all timecards for their assigned employees are approved on accurately and on time
 - ensure all compensatory time claimed must be documented on 'Premium Leave request'
 - CANNOT adjust employee timecards
 - approve/disapprove leave requests- capable of viewing leave balances of employees on their assigned teams"	"Requirements for ATAAPS Certifier:
 1. DD2875
  -Completed with all 3 signatures. Block 13 must include which team(s) requesting access to
 2. Annual Certifier Training
 Only upload the last digitally signed page
 
 3. NGB Required 20.01 Certifier Training
 Only upload the last digitally signed page
 
 4. DAO 101 Training 
 https://fams.cce.af.mil/pub/content/saffm/notice.html?u=https%3A%2F%2Ffams.cce.af.mil%2F
 5. DD577
 
  -I will initiate the request in FAMS and you will receive an email with instructions. The FAMS email must route to your @us.af.mil account.
 6. Annual Specialized PII Training Requirements
  https://dl.cyber.mil/trn/online/disa_pii_v40_final_web/launch.html"
Long tour order Pre-certification	Please see the attached training template on how to properly complete a Pre-cert.
Closeout for orders 30 days or more.	Please see the attached Closeout template with instructions on how to properly closeout an order that is 30 days or more.
What is required to become a Unit APC?	"When you appoint a new APC in your unit we need the following:
 
 1. Updated APC appointment letter
 2. GTS Statement of Understanding for new APC
 3. Unit APC training certificate (attached)
 4. Programs & Policies – Travel Card Program Management (APC Course (Course is in TRAX))
 
 When we have all 4 documents we will save them and create the APC profile for member."
Training for DTS is done on TRAX.	AO checklist from DTMO.
Questions relating to military pay, travel pay, civilian pay, or paying agent functions	"the 628th CPTS Customer Service team can be contacted in three ways:
 1) Virtually here on CSP. Responses given within 3 business days
 2) In-person at the Finance Office (Bldg 322, 3rd Floor) Monday - Thursday 0900-1500
 3) Via phone at 843-963-BUCK (2825) Monday - Thursday 0900-1500"
"Please read the attached memo to understand how to get the maximum amount of BAH 1 when on B2B short tour orders.
 
 
 
 Short Tour = 30 Days or Less 
 
 
 Short Tour orders are typically entitled to BAH II UNLESS they are B2B with another order that now makes it 31 consecutive days. 
 
 
 If you are on orders for 31 consecutive days, you maybe entitled to BAH I. There are different circumstances that can affect your BAH I start date so, read the memorandum to know more. 
 
 
 Example: Order 1: 29 Days - 01-29 October + Order 2: 2 Days - 30-31 October = On Orders for 31 Consecutive Days 
 
 
 If you do have short tour orders that maybe entitled to BAH I:DO NOT E-CERTIFY THESE ORDERS. YOU WILL CAUSE A PAY ISSUEWet sign/complete the statement of duty page (found on the INITIAL order, not on the modifications)Create a CSP inquiry, and upload the complete orders plus any modificationsAllow up to 3-5 business days to get a responseMonitor your CSP inquiry for any actions and to ensure your orders are taken care of."	"If you're short tour orders are back-to-back:
 
 
 1. Complete the statement of duty page attached to the initial order. ENSURE IT IS COMPLETED ENTIRELY.
 2. Upload the orders with the page and any modifications into a CSP Inquiry
 3. Advise in CSP description that you are turning in orders that are B2B and entitled to BAH I"
Finance reports (updated before every drill) can be found on our SharePoint under Squadron Reports.	"Use the Finance Report guide!
 
 
 Check to see if you find your name on these reports. If you do, make sure you get your name off it while you are performing drill. Being on these reports will lead pay issues/delays, document processing delays, suspension of GTCs, and more. 
 
 
 If you are a supervisor, first sergeant, commander, or ODTA, please make sure to let your people know and spread the word. 
 
 
 Find Reports Here --> https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/14034/HQ/CPTF/Squadron%20Reports/Forms/AllItems.aspx"
Short tour orders are 30 days or less. Long tour orders are 31 day or more.	No. Your 30 day order is considered a short tour order. All short tour orders must be signed in AROWS by the member and are processed for pay at the completion of the order.
I am on a short tour order that is entitled to BAH I. What do I need to do to get paid/receive BAH I?	"E-Certify your orders in AROWS. Follow the attached guide and track your orders for pay. Use the memorandum to know when you are entitled to get BAH I on a short-tour order.
 
 
 Once you and all parties e-certify your orders, you will show up on our back-to-back order report where we will then ensure you receive BAH Type I. Review the attached memorandum to understand when BAH Type I begins for back-to-back short tour orders. This report will be generated and reviewed on days LES' are generated. 
 
 
 Please note:
 Short Tour Orders (30 cal days or less) are available to e-certify on the LAST day of the order. Review memo to know when the order gets BAH I.
 
 
 Long Tour Orders (31 cal days or more) are available to e-certify on the FIRST day of the order. Automatically gets BAH I."
I want to take leave.	"FOLLOW NEW LEAVE PROCESS.
 
 
 1. Download AF988 from E-Pubs
 2. Complete AF988, ensure all boxes are complete and that it is signed by you and your supervisor.
 3. Upload AF988 into a CSP Inquiry - Military Pay - Leave Request Number
 4. Track your own leave.
 5. Take Leave
 6. Submit AF988 PART III after leave is complete. If you cancel or change your leave, you can put this in SECTION III
 
 
 AF988 PART I - Submit to finance for Leave Auth Number
 AF988 PART II - Your copy. TRACK YOUR LEAVE
 AF988 PART III - Submit to finance when you return from leave. COMPLETE SECTION III."
Carry Forward/Sell/Both Process	"FOLLOW LEAVE PROCESS GUIDE.
 
 
 1. Ensure you have turned in all AF988 Part IIIs from previously requested leave. Reports are on the 106 SharePoint. If you are on our report, you owe us an AF988 Part III. 
 2. Complete AF1089. Use the one provided NOT e-pubs. 
 3.Complete Leave SOU memorandum. (only if you want to carry forward previously earned leave)
 3. Submit 1089 and SOU via CSP. 
 
 
 Note: If PART IIIs are owed, your 1089 will NOT be processed. 
 
 
 1089 are to be submitted at the end of every long tour (31+ day) order. This is to let us know your orders have ended and you want to either keep or sell the left over days you've earned."
Please note: SGLI is a program managed by FSS. Contact them for any additional questions regarding SGLI or MilConnect.	You can update your SGLI/SSLI/FSGLI contributions in MilConnect.
"For more information on TSP, go to TSP.gov 
 Check out the webinars they have to offer to learn how you can maximize your contributions."	"1. Log Into MyPay
 2. Click TSP
 3. Update your percentages. 
 4. Allow up to one month for it to update."
There are many reasons you may have a debt. Here are a few.	"1. Check the remarks section on your LES. The date range is what you've been debted for. It will say what the debt is for typically right next to it. 
 
 If you did not get paid the month prior, the debt maybe simply for SGLI that is owed.If your orders were modified AFTER you got paid, you will receive a debt. If you e-certified orders that were then CANCELLED, you will receive a debt. If you were accidentally paid for drill, but you were on another order...you will receive a debt. If you were overpaid a bonus that was then terminated...you will receive a debt.If you took more leave than you had...you will receive a debt. If you were overpaid an entitlement that you are not entitled to (SDAP, BASIP, etc.) you will receive a debt.
 2. Open CSP inquiry with a copy of your LES with the debt you have questions on if you need more information."
"Check out if your zip code is entitled to COLA. COLA rates are updated by DFAS every calendar year.
 
 
 Read more about CONUS COLA: https://www.travel.dod.mil/Support/ALL-FAQs/Article/2906562/conus-cost-of-living-allowance/
 
 
 NOTE:
 BMT/TECH SCHOOL/PIPLINE - NOT AUTHORIZED COLA
 
 
 o Orders over 140 days use your HOR zip code.
 o PCS Orders use PCS location zip code.
 o Temp AGR over 180 days use base zip code.
 
 o Perm AGR use base zip code."	"You maybe entitled to COLA for the following reasons: In-Support of Contingency Order (based on HOR zip code)Orders are over 140+ days 
 
 
 Check the CONUS Calculator to know: https://www.travel.dod.mil/Allowances/Basic-Allowance-for-Housing/BAH-Rate-Lookup/
 
 
 Read about the 2023 CONUS COLA Changes: https://www.defense.gov/News/Releases/Release/Article/3254346/2023-conus-cola-rates/"
N/A	See slides.
Why is the M&IE portion of per-diem reduced for annual training?	"JTR 032302 A:
 3. An RC member listed below when both Government quarters, other than temporary lodging facilities, and a Government dining facility are available. a. An RC member performing annual training (AT). In this case the training location is the PDS, and no per diem is payable. Per diem is payable for TDY away from the annual training location or for travel to and from the annual training location if not in a commuting status. b. An RC member ordered to involuntary ADT because of unsatisfactory participation in the reserve commitment.c. An RC member newly enlisted and attending courses with a break in active duty between courses."
inprocessing	Yes to all the above, we need anyone and everyone coming to 310 SW RPO as a TR to inprocess. Please complete the attached required documents.
ATAAPS leave error...	"First, open your labor screen in ATAAPS and the pay period you are wanting to take leave. MAKE SURE THE DAYS AND HOURS MATCH UP WITH THE WING CALENDAR.
 
 
 *This is the primary reason the error shown above appears; when the hours don't line up in the labor screen, and the technician enters the hours based on the Wing calendar, the system alerts you to the fact that the hours don't match.
 
 
 Second, you are sometimes able to clear an error in the Leave Request screen by changing your 'From Time' and 'To Time' to even numbered hours.
 
 
 
 Third, ensure all fields with a red asterisk in the leave request are populated. 
 
 
 
 If you have tried these options and are still getting errors, contact the Finance office and ask for the technician pay CSR."
Member was charged for night of lodging for missing 40A.	"Be aware that when booking lodging for reschedules you or your unit must provide the 40A to lodging front desk at time of check-in to ensure the direct billing to unit occurs.
 
 To make sure FM has everything needed to complete a reimbursement make sure the following is attached to your CSP ticket.
 Signed 40AMFR with date you used ALRS to book your stay and explanation as to why 40A(s) were not provided to front desk, with your signature along with your supervisor and/or 1st Sgt.SF1034 - https://www.gsa.gov/Forms/TrackForm/32752Paid in full lodging receiptSF1199A (Direct Deposit Form) - https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-utl/sf-1199-a_dirdeposit.pdf
 
 
 
 Please keep in mind that when payment is processed that it will pay to you directly and will not pay your GTC if you used it. GTC will be individual responsibility to pay"
Video link https://www.milsuite.mil/book/groups/deams/blog/2023/03/13/afaoc-data-analytics-what-is-a-status-of-funds	https://www.milsuite.mil/book/groups/deams/blog/2023/03/13/afaoc-data-analytics-what-is-a-status-of-funds
Parental Leave	"Members may take parental leave in one continuous period or in increments. Parental leave may be taken together with ordinary leave.
 
 
 In LeaveWeb, select 'Permissive Leave', dropdown Rule #26 and add the discharge paperwork from the hospital. 
 
 
 For further clarification, please see the attached guidance from the Secretary of Defense dated 04 January 2023 or contact our wing HRO."
Description	Title
Click the link How to Update your Profile to watch a video or use the step by step guide for directions on updating your profile.	[HOW-TO] Update Your Comptroller Services Portal Profile
"If your dependents traveled separately from the Service member for a PCS, a separate DD 1351-2 (travel voucher) will be needed. The top portion of the voucher will remain the Service Member's info.
 
 You can retrieve the Dependent travel voucher packet from our CSP home page, Policy Memos and Guidelines, Travel Pay. Once completed submit your completed packet with all supporting documents via CSP.
 
  Required documents for processing:
  - DD 1351-2
  - Member’s PCS orders (front & back)
  - any receipts for expenses over $75 (Air Fare, Lodging, etc.)
  
 Forms:
 DD 1351-2 Travel Voucher
 TLE (if applicable) 
 
 Links: 
 https://usaf.dps.mil/teams/SAFFMCSP/portal/SitePages/Policymemosguidelines.aspx
 https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/Docs/perdiem/JTR.pdf
 AFIMSC RM Portal"	PCS - Dependent's Travel Voucher
If you're a military member that is retiring or separating please fill in the packet in this article. Then submit a CSP inquiry under the Category “Military Pay” and appropriate sub-category “Retirement” or “Separation”	Retirement & Separation packet
"Military Members: If you want to change your state of legal residence please complete the attached form and submit a Military Pay inquiry with the signed form uploaded. 
 
 
 Please read the form thoroughly as this only updates your state tax withholding on file with Finance. If the state you desire to become a resident of has more requirements (driver's license, physical address, etc.), you need to take action on those on your time. 
 
 
 Questions? Consult a legal advisor on-base or do independent research. CPTS members will not advise you which state(s) are better/worse."	Change State of Legal Residence
"If you recently had a life change to family members (e.g. got married, divorced, had a child, adoption, etc.) then please make sure to coordinate with FSS/MPS first to update DEERS and receive a DD1172 (Command Sponsorship) letter. Then send an inquiry under the ""Military Pay"" category, subcategory Basic Allowance Housing-(particular reason). 
 
 
 We'll need all the below substantiating documents:
 
 DD1172 provided by FSS/MPS an AF Form 594 completed & signed by memberDivorce decree, child support arrangement, court order, etc. (as applicable)
 
 
 A blank template AF594 is below.
 
 
 Complete Sections A, B & C of the AF594 and Date & Sign (digital is acceptable) at the bottom. 
 - Skip the upper right section on page 1 labeled for ""Lodging Official""
 - Common mistake: Section C: not checking the squares and understanding what you are self-certifying as correct and accurate."	Update BAH
"Advance Military Pay (DD Form 2560) is intended to defray the extraordinary costs of a PCS move. Advance military pay may not be approved to provide funds for items such as: investments, gifts, vacations, debt consolidation, utility bills, stereos, credit card debts, automobile insurance, and consumer goods not related to the PCS move. Also excluded are items covered by other entitlements such as: PCS en-route costs for food, lodging, and gas (provided for by travel pay entitlements via PCS final voucher) and rent or mortgage (covered by monthly housing allowance). 
 
 
 Advance Military Pay may be approved for items such as: down payment on a house, house hunting expenses, maintenance of two households, shipment of excess
 household goods, and consumer goods, necessary, as a result of the PCS move. E-4 and above may request one month advance Military Pay on their signature without
 commander approval.
 
 
 Commander approval (or squadron section commander on 'G' series orders) is required for E-3 and below. Officers, NCOs, and Senior Airmen (E-4), requesting more than 1-month's advance, or more than 12-months repayment, must also obtain commander approval. For guidance, refer to AFMAN 65-116, Vol 1, Chapter 35, and DoD Financial Management Regulation Vol 7a, Chapter 32, and table 32-2."	Advance Pay
"Leave and Earning Statements (LES) do not generate during your time in Basic Military Training (BMT). To get your LES turned on for viewing in DFAS' MyPay website, please submit an inquiry under the category ""Military Pay"" and subcategory ""Copy of LES missing in MyPay"" and upload to the inquiry's Documents section a copy of your tech training orders. 
 
 
 CPTS will process and the update takes about 2-weeks to reflect in the DFAS MyPay website once resolved."	MyPay not showing LES?
"Advance Military Pay (DD Form 2560) is intended to defray the extraordinary costs of a PCS move. Advance military pay may not be approved to provide funds for items such as: investments, gifts, vacations, debt consolidation, utility bills, stereos, credit card debts, automobile insurance, and consumer goods not related to the PCS move. Also excluded are items covered by other entitlements such as: PCS en-route costs for food, lodging, and gas (provided for by travel pay entitlements via PCS final voucher) and rent or mortgage (covered by monthly housing allowance). 
 
 
 Advance Military Pay may be approved for items such as: down payment on a house, house hunting expenses, maintenance of two households, shipment of excess
 household goods, and consumer goods, necessary, as a result of the PCS move. E-4 and above may request one month advance Military Pay on their signature without
 commander approval.
 
 
 Commander approval (or squadron section commander on 'G' series orders) is required for E-3 and below. Officers, NCOs, and Senior Airmen (E-4), requesting more than 1-month's advance, or more than 12-months repayment, must also obtain commander approval. For guidance, refer to AFMAN 65-116, Vol 1, Chapter 35, and DoD Financial Management Regulation Vol 7a, Chapter 32, and table 32-2."	Advance Pay
"If you've recently had a change in dependent status (marriage, birth of a child, divorce, etc) and need to update your Basic Allowance for Housing, create a ""military pay"" inquiry, fill out and upload an AF594, and attach a copy of your substantiating documents (marriage cert, birth cert etc). Also, please be sure to visit the MPS to update DEERS."	Update BAH
"Due to the current HPCON level, members PCSing in have the ability to file their PCS travel voucher through the CSP. Please follow our step by step guide and complete all the necessary forms. Then, open a ""travel pay"" inquiry, upload your forms along with all necessary receipts and a copy of your orders, and submit them to our PCS team. If we need further documentation or clarification, we will reach back out to you in the ""discussions"" section of your inquiry. 
 
 
 Once we receive your voucher, we will then be able to update you military pay entitlements, including BAH."	File your PCS Travel Voucher
"If you've returned from a TDY or deployment that was greater than 30 days AND you have a qualifying dependent, you are entitled to Family Separation Allowance. Create a ""military pay"" inquiry, fill out a DD1561, and upload the signed form along with a copy of your signed DTS voucher and orders."	Family Separation Allowance
If you're PCSing out and would like to be cleared from vMPF, please create a Military Pay inquiry with a subcategory of PCS Outprocessing and attach a copy of your PCS orders. Also, make sure you include your projected departure date (PDD) in the title or description	PCS Out Processing
Here are your TOP 10 Customer Inquiries and Required Backup Documenation. It gives you directions and How-To. Please see document. Thank you.	Top 10 Customer Inquiries and Requied Backup Documentation
How to Fill out FSA Form	How to Fill out FSA Form
How to Fill out TLE Forms?	How to Fill out TLE Forms?
Please fill out the 594 and send in your marriage certificate	Update Dependency with Spouse
Changing Dependency status to divorce with Children	Changing Dependency status to divorce with Children
"Please see message below and attached memo for details on an exception to policy regarding certain time off awards for civilian employees in response to COVID-19.
 
 
 BLUF:
 Time-off awards issued during the period of March 13, 2019-September 30, 2020 will not have an expiration date. Time-off awards issued on or after October 1, 2020 will be subject to the one year limitation for use.Please see message below and attached memo for details on an exception to policy regarding certain time off awards for civilian employees in response to COVID-19."	Removal of Expiration date for Certain Time-Off Awards
If you have a new bank account and want your paycheck to go to this account, you can update DFAS' MyPay website direct and save a visit to Finance. Follow the attached guide to update your information in just minutes online.	Updating Direct Deposit information
"Temporary Lodging Expense is an allowance that partially reimburses a Service member for lodging and meal expenses while staying in temporary lodging, in the CONUS, during a PCS. Temporary Lodging Expense may not cover all lodging and meal expenses incurred. 
 
 
 In your Travel Pay inquiry please include:Your PCS OrdersLodging ReceiptsTLE form (page 2 of packet)
 
 
 Defense Travel Management Office's FAQ page: https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/site/faqtle.cfm
 
 
 Reference: See JTR, Section 0506 for specific information and regulatory guidance on Temporary Lodging Expense
 
 
 Temporary Lodging Allowance (TLA) is an OCONUS entitlement when you are in-country."	Temporary Lodging Expense (TLE)-CONUS
"If you've returned from a TDY or deployment that was greater than 30 days AND you have a qualifying dependent, you are entitled to Family Separation Allowance. Create a ""military pay"" inquiry, fill out a DD1561, and upload the signed form along with a copy of your signed DTS voucher and orders.
 
 
 DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED: 
 
 DEPLOYMENT/TDY ORDERS {IF FILING BEFORE DEPARTURE) 
 DTS VOUCHER (IF FILING UPON RETURN) 
 
 
 REGULATION: AFMAN65-116Vl, CH. 27 
 
 
 *NOTE* MEMBER MUST RESIDE IN THE SAME HOUSEHOLD PRIOR TO SEPARATION TO QUALIFY FOR FAMILY SEPARATION ALLOWANCE"	Family Separation Allowance (FSA)
"Did you ship a vehicle to or from OCONUS using government funded PCS orders to a Vehicle Processing Center (VPC)? You can be reimbursed for your trip to the VPC to retrieve your vehicle. Please create an inquiry under Category ""Travel Pay"" and subcategory ""Personally Owned Vehicle (POV) Drop-off/Pick-up"" and attach the following documents:
 
 
  1) Your PCS orders
  2) DD1351-2 (travel voucher)
  3) Your vehicle claim check (the one with the diagram of your vehicle)
 
 
  While you get to and return from the VPC by any method, you will only be reimbursed for round-trip mileage. You can claim any tolls paid in the expenses area of the DD1351-2.
  
 Forms:
 1) Your PCS orders
  2) DD1351-2 (travel voucher)
  3) Your vehicle claim check (the one with the diagram of your vehicle)
 
 
 Links:
 CSP for that local Base.
 
 AFIMSC RM Portal"	Vehicle Shipment Pickup/Drop-off reimbursement
If you're PCSing out and would like to be cleared from vMPF, please create a Military Pay inquiry with a subcategory of PCS Outprocessing and attach a copy of your PCS orders. Also, make sure you include your projected departure date (PDD) in the title or description.	***PCS Out Processing***
"Attached you will find the packet which is needed to out process finance for your upcoming retirement or separation. You will need to fill out the first three forms after the cover sheet (the leave verification letter must be signed by either your CSS, First Sergeant , or Commander). 
 
 
 
 Once your terminal leave has been approved by your commander in leave web.Create a Military Pay inquiry with your completed forms and a copy of orders.
 
 Completion of this packet will in return get you your leave authorization numbers and signed off in vMPF."	***Retirement and Separation Out Processing***
"If you’ve recently had a change in your dependency status (marriage, birth of a child, divorce, etc...) create a military pay inquiry. Fill out and upload an AF Form 594, and attach a copy of your substantiating documents (marriage certificate, birth certificate, divorce decree, etc...)
 
 
 If you have recently moved out of the dorms, create a military pay inquiry and upload a copy of your final termination letter from dorm management."	***BAH Update***
To update your state of legal residence as far as state taxes are concerned fill out the DD Form 2058 below. Once complete, create a military pay inquiry and upload the document.	***State of Legal Residence***
"Before submitting a claim to your servicing Finance office, please visit the Traffic Management Office with your supporting documents. Once TMO has validated your claim, please ensure the following documents are included with your packet;
 
 DD Form 2278 (must have all three signatures)
 
 DD Form 1351-2 
 
 PPM Expense Worksheet
 Weigh Tickets
 Orders and amendments (if applicable)
 
 
 For PPM Advances, please submit the signed DD Form 2278 with a copy of orders once you are within 10 duty days of departing.
 
 
 Note: Transportation personnel will no longer submit DD Form 2278 for PPM to FSO for Service members and employees. As a result, PPPO/PPSOs must notify their local FSO that customers will submit their PPM Travel Voucher directly to FSO for processing and payment.
 
 PPPO/PPSO personnel will still 1) Validate weight ticket(s) or compute constructive weight(s) in accordance with JTR, Ch. 5, 2) Verify remaining weight entitlement, 3) Compute Government Constructive Cost (GCC) and complete DD Form 2278, and 4) RETURN DD Form 2278 to Service member(s) and employee(s) for submission to FSO within 3 (three) Government Business Days of receipt and computation
 
 
 Forms:
 DD1351-2 Travel Voucher
  
 Links:
 
 AFIMSC RM Portal"	PPM (TMO) Packet Submission
"If you are PCSing, are within 30 days of your projected departure date (PDD), and would like to be cleared from vMPF, please create a Military Pay inquiry with subcategory “PCS Outprocessing”. Please provide your PDD and attach a copy of your orders along with any amendments.
 
 
 If you are interested in an advance of pay or an advance of Dislocation Allowance (DLA), please follow the guidelines in Knowledge Article: “Advance Pay” or “Advance Dislocation Allowance (DLA)”."	PCS Out-Processing
"If you would like an advance of Dislocation Allowance (DLA), please create a Travel Pay inquiry with subcategory “Advance Travel Allowance- DLA/PCS/PPM”. You must be within 14 days of your projected departure date (PDD), provide a copy of your orders (including amendments), and completed DD Form 1351 (attached).
 
  DLA partially reimburses a Service member for expenses incurred from moving a household. DLA is a flat amount based on rank and dependency status. To view current DLA rates, please visit: https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/site/DLA.cfm
 ***PLEASE NOTE***
 
  If you are single and moving into government quarters, such as a dorm, you are not eligible for DLA. 
 
  Dependents must relocate to receive the accompanied rate DLA; otherwise, only the single rate DLA is payable.
 
 
  Required Documents
  · DD Form 1351 (template below)
 · Copy of orders and any applicable memorandums/amendments
 · Scheduled final out date from MPF
 
   
  Forms:
 DD1351
 Links:
 https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/site/faqdla.cfm
 https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/Docs/perdiem/browse/Allowances/Dislocation_Allowance/DLA-2020-01-01.pdf?CFID=273671311&CFTOKEN=df2a09fd7500ee6a-A0FF44D8-A47A-DF6B-BDB8C98F6C1759F6AFIMSC RM Portal"	Dislocation Allowance (DLA) Advance Request
"If you were ROM’d or quarantined at your previous duty station or new duty station during COVID-19 please have the appropriate FSS/MPS office provide you a signed copy of this letter in lieu of amended orders. This document is required to support reimbursing you for HDP-ROM entitlements to help defray the cost of lodging should you have expenses. Please also provide applicable lodging receipts.
 At previous duty station = previous FSS/MPS completes memoAt new duty station = new unit Commander signs memo
 
 
 Your PCS voucher itinerary will need to note days you spent in ROM/quarantine.If you were held at your previous duty station you’ll list the location and the Reason Code will be “AT” for Awaiting Transportation. The next line will continue with your onward movement.If you had to ROM/quarantine upon arriving your new duty station, list the location and use Reason Code “AD” for Authorized Delay. When you completed your ROM/quarantine, you will need to use the next block to “depart” ROM via Personal Auto (Mode PA) and finish your PCS with Mission Complete (Reason Code MC).It is possible to have ROM at both ends of your journeyROM does NOT count against your Temporary Lodging Entitlement (TLE). Members also need to self-certify they did not receive meals or lodging at no cost to them (i.e. Free). Template to use is attached and needs to be included in their PCS voucher package."	PCS with ROM/Quarantine During COVID-19
"If you would like an advance of Dislocation Allowance (DLA), please create a Travel Pay inquiry with subcategory “Advance Travel Allowance- DLA/PCS/PPM”. You must be within 20 days of your projected departure date (PDD), provide a copy of your orders (including amendments), and completed DD Form 1351. You can retrieve the DD1351 on the CSP home page, Policy memos and Guidelines, Travel Pay. The form is named 1351 DLA Advance.
 
  DLA partially reimburses a Service member for expenses incurred from moving a household. DLA is a flat amount based on rank and dependency status. To view current DLA rates, please visit: https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/site/DLA.cfm
 
  ***PLEASE NOTE***
 
  If you are single and moving into govt. quarters, such as a dorm, you are not eligible for DLA. 
 
  Dependents must relocate to receive the accompanied rate DLA, otherwise, only the single rate DLA is payable.
 
 Forms:
 DD Form 1351
 Orders
  
 Links: 
 https://usaf.dps.mil/teams/SAFFMCSP/portal/SitePages/Policymemosguidelines.aspx
 https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/site/faqdla.cfm
 https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/site/DLA.cfm
 
 AFIMSC RM Portal"	Advance DLA
"Briefings are in person Tuesday and Thursday 0900 – 1000 
 
 
 CSP Link: https://usaf.dps.mil/teams/SAFFMCSP/portal/SitePages/Home.aspx
 
 
 
 Location: 501 Airey Ave, Building #647, Suite 178, Tyndall AFB, FL, United States 32403"	PCS_In-Processing
"Members that are separating/retiring need to complete the attached ""Finance Packet for Retirement Separation"". Only complete pages 1-4, and turn in with a copy of your separation/retirement orders (front and back). Briefings are held every Friday at 0900 hours in the Finance lobby.
 
 Your permissive and terminal leaves must be approved by your Commander prior to out processing Finance.
 
 
 For those members who are traveling for their final move, you'll keep the travel voucher with you and complete this after you arrive at your final destination. Once complete, you can email it to tyndall.finance.help@us.af.mil.
 
 If there are any questions, please submit a CSP inquiry."	Separating or Retiring?
Please see attached training aides for the new DCPS Certifier role. Please provide any feedback or additional information you'd like to see included in this training to help future certifiers.	DCPS Certifier Training Aides
"Returning from deployment? Here are the documents that are required for our DTS techs to process your settlement voucher:
 
 
 
 1. Form 1351-2, Travel Voucher (1351-2c if necessary)*
 
 2. Form 1561, Family Separation Allowance (if applicable)
 
 3. COVID-19 Deployment Extension memo (if applicable)
 
 4. Form 1351-2 Checklist- this will assist the tech in entering the voucher in DTS
 
 *examples provided for reference
 
 
 
 Required receipts:
 
 -Airfare (official receipts)
 
 -Lodging (itemized)
 
 -Claims $75.00 and up
 
 NOTES: also provide any documents to support variations from initial CED order. (i.e. change in per diem, interim TDYs, evacuations, etc…)
 
 
 
 Once you have completed the documents and have all of the required receipts, submit an inquiry with all documentation. Our team will review. If all documents are complete and signed, the tech will ""T-enter"" your voucher in DTS. If not, the tech will be in touch to advise on corrections. Be sure to check the status of your inquiry, the tech will provide updates in the inquiry. Inquiries will be closed after 5 days if no response is provided."	Deployment Corner - Final Voucher Documentation
"If you would like an advance of Pay, please create a Military Pay inquiry with subcategory “Pay Advance – Base Pay/Housing Allowance”. Please complete and attach the DD Form 2560 (Advance Pay Certification/Authorization).
 Commander Approval:
 Commander approval is required for E-3 and below regardless of the requested advance amount or repayment schedule. For E-4 and above, Commander approval is only required if requesting more than one month’s advance or if requesting a repayment schedule greater than 12 months.
 Repayment:
 Repayment automatically begins the month after the advance is received. (Ex: Advance payment is received in July, then repayment will begin in August.) The advance amount due will appear at the bottom of your LES every month until paid in full.
 For more information on advance pay please see AFMAN65-116 V1, AFMAN 65-116 V2, and DoDFMR Vol 7a Chapter 32.
 
 
 
 Forms:
 DD2560
 
 
 
 Links:"	Advance Pay
Please see attached flyer for 628 CPTS Contact info.	628 CPTS Virtual Operations Info
"To change your state of legal residence complete the attached form and submit a 'Military Pay' inquiry with the signed form uploaded. 
 
 
 Please read the form thoroughly as this only updates your state tax withholding on file with Finance."	State of Legal Residency
"Please ensure DEERS has been updated. To update your record due to dependent status (marriage, birth of a child, divorce, etc.) and to update your Basic Allowance for Housing, create a 'Military Pay' inquiry, fill out and upload an AF594, attach a copy of your substantiating documents (marriage cert, birth cert, etc.), and DD Form 1172-2 (form from DEERS) . 
 
 
 Forms:
 AF 594 BAH Certification.pdf
 
 
 Links:"	Change of Dependency
To change your direct deposit/bank account, refer to the attached PDF.	Change of Direct Deposit/Bank Account
To be cleared from vMPF, attach a copy of your orders (along with any amendments) within 30 days of your projected departure date and provide the date of your projected departure. Create a 'Military Pay' inquiry.	PCS Out-processing
Have questions about the Debt process? Click here!	14 CPTS Debt Guide
Here are answers to the common question you may have!	14 CPTS Frequently Asked Questions
"Congratulations on the new addition! If you would like to receive maternity clothing allowance, please input an inquiry
 Category: Military Pay
 Subcategory: Clothing Allowance
 
 
 Upload the following in the inquiry to Documents area:
 1) AF469 medical profile (provider & CC signed)
 2) Memo signed by Shirt or CC (template below)"	Maternity Clothing Allowance
"To claim TLE after conducting your finance in-processing, you will need a copy of your temporary lodging receipts, the TLE certification form a copy of your orders (including amendments), and fresh DD1351-2 with no itinerary. Fill out boxes 1-9, claim TLE in the reimbursable expenses portion, use the additional boxes if needed, and sign and date on the bottom. Create a 'Travel Pay' inquiry.
 
 Forms: 
 TLE
 DD1351-2 Travel Voucher
 
 Links: 
 TLE frequently asked questions
 AFIMSC RM Portal"	Claiming TLE After In-processing
"At the current moment we are conducting in processing by appointment only, in person. Please call our office to schedule appointments @ (301) 677-0815.
 
 
 We are currently located at Bldg: 9829A Room: 100
 
 
 Please fill out all of the highlighted areas in the attached packet below and print them out before your scheduled appointment time. Also review the FAQ sheet for all required supporting documentation that is needed.
 
 
 DMA/DINFOS personnel only, submit your packet as a travel inquiry into the system."	*** PCS IN-PROCESSING ***
"There are 2 areas in myPay to update your address.
 First the Correspondence Address is what DFAS uses to send hardcopy LES or W-2s if you have not elected for digital.
 
  TSP is a separate US government entity that gets information from different US government departments so they don't auto-update when you update your address with DFAS.
 
  For TSP, there's a separate area to update. The slide attached will help you see the difference. Once you save the changes, myPay will advise you when the update will take effect. It is usually within a couple of days to a week.
 Attachments
 
 Forms:
 How-To_Update-TSP-address.pdf
 
 
 Links:
 ?"	Updating your address with DFAS or Thrift Savings Plan (TSP)
"“A dislocation allowance partially reimburses a Service member for expenses incurred when moving a household. A dislocation allowance is a flat amount and may be paid as a primary dislocation allowance, a secondary dislocation allowance, or a partial dislocation allowance, depending upon the circumstances of the household move. Only one dislocation allowance payment is permitted in a fiscal year, unless the situation qualifies as an exception in JTR, par. 050501.”
 Reference: https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/site/faqdla.cfm
  
 *Must be submitted within 10 days of scheduled final out date with MPF.*
 Required Documents:
 · DD Form 1351 click here
 · Copy of orders or if any applicable memorandum or amendment(s)
 · Scheduled final out date from MPF
 
 DLA Rates please see link below:
 https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/Docs/perdiem/browse/Allowances/Dislocation_Allowance/DLA-2020-01-01.pdf?CFID=273671311&CFTOKEN=df2a09fd7500ee6a-A0FF44D8-A47A-DF6B-BDB8C98F6C1759F6
 DLA information for mil-to-mil members:
 https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/Docs/CE-MPDT-18.pdf
 DLA Eligibility and Limitations (0505 Dislocation Allowance):
 
 https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/Docs/perdiem/JTR.pdf"	Advanced Dislocation Allowance
WITHIN 30 days of Terminal Leave, create a CSP inquiry. In the inquiry, please attach a copy of your orders and along with the attached documents (AF 1745 Civilian Change of Address, AF Form 594, Sep Ret Statement of Understanding, and Statement of Housing). A separation work file will be established before Finance authorizes Terminal Leave and signs you out of vMPF.	Separations & Retirements
"- Date/Time: Doors close at 0730 to start the briefing
 - Location: the Mustang Center, Multi Purpose Room
 - Sign up: members respective CSS
 - Finance in-processing briefing schedule varies depend on the number of attendees 
 -DO NOT USE E-FINANCE TO FILE YOUR TRAVEL VOUCHER
 - Finance is providing mass briefing and one-on-one interview to help out the voucher filing at the base in-processing
 
 You need these to get voucher payment!
 · PCS Orders (2 copies: Front and Back)
 · Airfare Receipts
 · Lodging Receipts
 · Receipts of $75+
 You might need these based on situations
 · “Memo in-Lieu of PCS Amendments”
 · Exception to Policy (ETP) letter
 · Vehicle Port Center (VPC) diagram
 · Recruiter Assistance Program letter (RAP)
 · PCS Amendments (2 copies: Front and Back)
 · Any documents last duty station said “IMPORTANT GIVE TO FINANCE”
 
 
 PCS Auto Tool is available for you to initiate the travel voucher process at your location. please access the following URL todownload the tool. the direction will be posted shortly however, the tool is survey based and you will find it easy to use. once complete the first tab, please print the completed following forms to the in-processing briefing for the expedited processing. 
 
 
 The tool is available via link below. 
 
 
 Link to PCS Auto Tool for expedited travel voucher processing"	PCS IN-PROCESSING
What is the Comptroller Services Portal?	Comptroller Services Portal Introduction Slides
"If you were or will be separated from your military spouse and/or dependent(s) for 31 days or more as a direct result of orders (TDY, Deployment, or PCS), you may be entitled to Family Separation Allowance (FSA). You must share a household with your military spouse/dependents upon receiving orders to qualify for FSA.
 
 
 
 
 To file, create a ""Military Pay"" inquiry, subcategory ""Family Separation Allowance (FSA)"" and attach documents as listed below:
 
 If Filing Upon Departure or While Separated (Type T):
 DD Form 1561(Required)
 DTS Authorization or CED Orders(Required)
 
 
 If Filing Upon Return (Type T):
 DD Form 1561(Required)
 DTS Voucher, MUST be created & signed within DTS (Recommend attaching to reduce processing time)
 DTS Authorization or CED Orders (Recommend attaching to reduce processing time)
 
 PCS Related FSA (Type R):
 DD Form 1561(Required)
 PCS Voucher(Required)
 PCS Orders(Required)"	Family Separation Allowance (FSA)
"Are you within 60 days of starting Permissive or Terminal leave? Are you within 60 days of separating or retiring?
 
 1. Please sign up to attend an in-person brief with our technicians: https://633cpts.setmore.com/bookclass
 2. Complete our Separation/Retirement packet and start a Separation/Retirement MILPAY CSP inquiry, the documents listed below must be included and are required for the brief:
 
 - Finance Separation/Retirement Packet
 
 - Separation/Retirement Orders
 - DD Form 1172-2
 
 
  Note: Permissive/terminal leave can only be authorized after it's been fully approved within your unit.
 
 
 
 Updated as of 15 May 2023"	Separation/Retirement Out-processing Packet
"If you are PCSing from JBLE and within 10 days of your departure date, please create an inquiry within CSP, attach a copy of your orders and annotate your Final Out date with MPF.
 
 
 If you are looking for an advance, please make sure you head to eFinance and complete your pay, DLA, or PPM advance online there. Guide to file the advance is attached.
 
 
 Your request should be processed within 3 duty days from receipt."	PCS Out Processing
"New to the base and need to file your Travel Voucher? Filing voucher does two things!
  1) Gains your pay record to JBLE, starts local entitlements, stops entitlements from old duty station.
 2) Reimburses you for your travel from your last duty station and pay off any outstanding GTC bills
 
 
 JB Langley-Eustis inbounds must attend the weekly Finance in-processing brief every Tuesday at 1300. (Location will be given upon sign up)
  1) Sign-up for an available session at https://633cptsfmf.setmore.com/bookclass
 
  2) Bring a copy of your orders and all applicable receipts 
 
 Geographically Separated Units (GSU) will file their Travel Voucher through eFinance. (Requires CAC-enabled device)
  1) Navigate to efinance homepage: efinance.sso.cce.af.mil 
 
  2) Register and fill out/update profile completely (this aids in the voucher process)
 3) Create new PCS and provide information/documentation as prompted"	2023 PCS In-Processing
"Dependent Validation (AF 594)
 - Please fill out the AF 594 and submit your inquiry to the Comptroller Services Portal 
 - Your COLA will be adjusted according to your changes in AF 594
 
 
 * Use the most updated form available in Air Force e-pub. current most up to date form is as of 29 Jul 2013
 https://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/saf_fm/form/af594/af594.pdf
 
 
 
 *Example*
 * Your child left Korea, you'd like to make the changes in your pay record. you need this procedure completed to avoid debt to your paycheck.
 
 Attached is a blank AF-594 as well as a completed example and below are the instructions on completing the AF-594:
 •Blocks 1-6: Self-explanatory
 •Block 8: The first and second box should be checked. The “effective date” box should be filled with the date of marriage
 oBlock 8a – 8d: These boxes should contain all of the members dependents information. IE: The spouses and children’s information (including the child that has departed).
 •PART C: The first box should be checked. (The box to the left of the “I certify that I provide adequate support”…
 •Sign and date the bottom of page one
 •Page two, under “Additional information”: Please place the below statement:
 o“I Certify that (Insert name of the child who has departed Osan) departed South Korea on (Insert date of departure)."	Changes in Family Status? Your child left Korea? AF 594
In order to out-process with 15 CPTS please submit a copy of your orders and include your projected date of departure in the description box. Once received we will sign you out of vMPF. Thank you.	Finance Out-Processing
"You can apply for Family Separation Allowance before you depart for your TDY to ensure your pay is correct while you are TDY. If you did not apply before going TDY and
  if you've returned from a TDY or deployment that was greater than 30 days AND you have a qualifying dependent, you are entitled to Family Separation Allowance. Create a ""military pay"" inquiry, fill out a DD 1561, and upload the signed form along with the following documents:
 
 DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED: 
 DEPLOYMENT/TDY ORDERS {IF FILING BEFORE DEPARTURE) 
 DTS VOUCHER (IF FILING UPON RETURN) 
 
 
 
 REGULATION: AFMAN65-116Vl, CH. 27 
 
 
 Forms:
 DD 1561 DEC 2017 FSA.pdf
 
 
 
 Links:
 
 ?"	How to File: Family Separation Allowance (FSA)
"In order to update your dependency status and change your BAH rate, please submit an inquiry with the following documentation:
 
 
 AF Form 594
 MilPDS Screenshot showing dependent update
 COLA Re-Certification
 Command Sponsorship Letter (For new births or marriages)
 
 
 And one of the following:
 
 
 Certified Marriage Certificate
 Birth Certificate
 DD 214
 Enlistment Documents (If civilian spouse converts to military)
 Divorce Decree"	How To: Update Dependency Status (BAH)
"1. You must have your orders.
 
 
 2. Your leave must be approved by a commander.
 
 a. If you are attending a Skills Bridge program, at least 1 day of terminal leave is required after the program is over.
 
 
 3. Schedule an appointment prior to your final out with MPF.
 
 a. Appointments are given Tuesdays and Thursdays 0900-1100, in 30 min increments.
 
 
 
 
 4. Complete the attached packet before arriving to your appointment (print and submit)."	Requirements To Out-Process for Separation or Retirement
"Members may attend briefing up to 45 days before date of retirement. Members must be in Uniform of the Day. Retirement orders are required (No exceptions).
 
 
 Sign-up here: https://www.signupgenius.com/go/904044aa8a629a2f94-jbsa"	Retirement or Separation Briefing
"BLUF: Most of you will see an increase in your pay from 15 September until 31 December due to a tax deferral of the Social Security tax. However, that money will be taken from your wages over your paychecks that cover 1 January (starting 15 Jan) to 30 April. Unfortunately neither military members nor civilian employees are eligible to opt-out of the deferral. 
 
 Military Members - Effective for the September mid-month pay (15 Sep), DFAS will temporarily defer the withholding of your 6.2% Social Security tax if your monthly rate of basic pay is less than $8,666.66. If your monthly rate of basic pay is at or above this threshold, your social security tax withholding will not be affected by the temporary deferral. Military members can use their August or prior LES as a good reference for their typical Social Security tax amount. The Social Security tax is labeled as “FICA-SOC SECURITY” on the LES and is calculated as 6.2% of basic pay.
 
  Civilian Employees - Effective pay period ending September 12, 2020, DFAS will temporarily defer your 6.2% OASDI tax withholding if your wages, subject to OASDI are $4,000 or less in any given pay period. Employees can use the “Taxable Wages” on the LES as a good reference for whether they will have OASDI tax deferred. The OASDI deduction is found on your LES under the deductions tab/section.
 
 Military members are not eligible to opt-out of the deferral if their Social Security wages fall within the stated limits. The deferral will happen automatically.
 
  Civilian employees are not eligible to opt-out of the deferral if their Social Security wages fall within the stated limits. The deferral will happen automatically.
 
 Per IRS guidance, collection of the deferred taxes will be taken from your wages between January 1 and April 30, 2021 for both military members and civilian employees. Additional information on the collection process will be provided in the future.
 
 
 If a military member or civilian employee separates or retires in 2020 before the Social Security tax can be collected in 2021, they are still responsible for the Social Security tax repayment. Additional information on the collection process will be provided in the future.
 
 
 More questions click below:
 https://www.dfas.mil/taxes/Social-Security-Deferral/Military-FAQs/ (Military)
 https://www.dfas.mil/taxes/Social-Security-Deferral/Civilian-Employee-FAQs/ (Civilian)
 https://go.usa.gov/xGVrm (link for a phone friendly version)
 
 IRS Info on the tax withholding deferral:
 https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/guidance-issued-to-implement-presidential-memorandum-deferring-certain-employee-social-security-tax-withholding
 
 Link to info above:
 
 https://www.dfas.mil/taxes/Social-Security-Deferral/"	Tax Deferral
"In response to the Presidential Memorandum issued on August 8, 2020 (https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/memorandum-deferring-payroll-tax-obligations-light-ongoing-covid-19-disaster), and the Department of the Treasury/IRS guidance issued August 28, 2020, below is the information we received regarding the planned implementation of the deferred payroll tax. 
 
 DFAS will implement system changes to defer employees’ withholding of 6.2% of social security wages for those employees under the wages threshold and subject to social security tax. In addition, DFAS is planning on sending a SMARTDOC to all employees – both civilian and military members next week.
 
 Partnering with the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), DFAS will implement the guidance according to the expectation that all Federal Civilian Payroll Providers will act in unison. OMB directed all Executive Branch Agencies to implement the deferral. This change will be made for both Civilians and the Military. As such, no Payroll Providers, Departments/Agencies, nor employees will be able to opt-in/opt-out of the deferral. The elimination of the withholding of employee deductions for the applicable employees will be effective the second paycheck in September, pay period ending September 12, 2020, that pays out September 18th. For the military members it will be effective with the mid-month that pays out September 15th.
 
 DFAS will defer the Social Security (Old Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance or OASDI) employee deductions for all employees whose gross social security wages that are less than $4,000 in any given pay period through the end of 2020 (for military members this is calculated on monthly rate of basic pay that is less than $8,666.66 in any given month). Applicability will be determined on a pay period-by-pay period basis and could vary according to the wages subject to OASDI withholding. The deferral will not impact those employees in Retirement Plans not subject to Social Security withholding (i.e. CSRS).
 
 Please be advised that the IRS guidance advises that the deferred amount of OASDI tax be collected between January 1-April 30, 2021, more information to come from DFAS on exactly how collection will occur. The IRS is still working to determine how the deferral and collection will impact employees’ W-2s. Employees should be made aware that the temporary deferral of the 6.2% OASDI withholding does not eliminate them from being liable for the tax should they depart from Federal Civilian Employment. 
 
 
 We will continue to keep you updated with any additional information that we receive."	Deferring Payroll Tax Obligations in Light of COVID - IAW Presidential Memorandum Issued on Aug 8, 2020
"Until the AFRC resumes their weekly Newcomer’s Orientation, Finance will hold PCS voucher briefings on Wednesdays @ 1300-1600 in the ballroom at the Schilling Community Center. Members can now sign up for the briefings via our share point site under Quick Links:https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/er/0712/SitePages/Home.aspx
 
 Due to COVID and social distancing, we can only allow a maximum of 40 personnel per session. To expedite voucher processing sessions, members MUST have the following BEFORE they attend the briefing to file their PCS vouchers:
 
 · PCS Orders (front and back)
 · Amendments (front and back)
 · Letter in Lieu Of à Especially for Members whose RNLTDs changed or were delayed due to Stop Movement*if applicable*
 · Receipts for lodging, airfare, and expenses over $75.00
 · GTC holders – GTC balance required for mandatory Split Disbursementà members can get that via 1-800-200-7056 orhome.cards.citidirect.com (also available by downloading the Citibank App)
 · Form 788 for vehicle drop off *if applicable*
 
 
 *Members must wear a face mask or they will be turned away. Please contact us at18cpts.finance@us.af.mil or DSN 632-3609 if you have any questions. Thank you for your understanding and cooperation."	18 Wing PCS In-Processing Checklist COVID-19
"Leaders,
 
 BLUF: The vast majority of personnel on GAFB will be affected by a payroll tax deferment starting with their next paycheck. The extra money we will get over the next few months will be paid back next year. Please ensure your Airmen are tracking to prevent financial strain in the future. 
 
 Per 17 FSS, The Airman & Family Readiness Center (Bldg. 145) is ready to assist with any financial readiness questions per the tax deferral or any other financial matter. Please feel free to contact them at 654-3893 or emailfsc.programs@us.af.mil (Monday – Friday from 0800-1600) for more information or to make an appointment.
 
 Background: This is a “deferral” of taxes (not free/additional money) and members will have to pay this “deferred” tax back. Federal workers do not have the option to “opt-out” of having the tax deferred. The best way to know how it will affect you is to check your LES. More information is expected on how the deferred taxes will be recouped in 2021.
 
 Please be cautious of information from unofficial sources. Information from FM channels is below. Additional information can be found on the DFAS website here:https://www.dfas.mil/taxes/Social-Security-Deferral/.
 
 v/r
 KARA L. TAYLOR, Lt Col, USAF
 Commander, 17th Comptroller Squadron
 Comm: (325) 654-5181
 DSN: 477-5181
 
 
 
 
 
 In response to the Presidential Memorandum issued on August 8, 2020 (https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/memorandum-deferring-payroll-tax-obligations-light-ongoing-covid-19-disaster), and the Department of the Treasury/IRS guidance issued August 28, 2020, below is the information we received regarding the planned implementation of the deferred payroll tax. 
 
 DFAS will implement system changes to defer employees’ withholding of 6.2% of social security wages for those employees under the wages threshold and subject to social security tax. In addition, DFAS is planning on sending a SMARTDOC to all employees – both civilian and military members next week.
 
 Partnering with the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), DFAS will implement the guidance according to the expectation that all Federal Civilian Payroll Providers will act in unison. OMB directed all Executive Branch Agencies to implement the deferral. This change will be made for both Civilians and the Military. As such, no Payroll Providers, Departments/Agencies, nor employees will be able to opt-in/opt-out of the deferral. The elimination of the withholding of employee deductions for the applicable employees will be effective the second paycheck in September, pay period ending September 12, 2020, that pays out September 18th. For the military members it will be effective with the mid-month that pays out September 15th.
 
 DFAS will defer the Social Security (Old Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance or OASDI) employee deductions for all employees whose gross social security wages that are less than $4,000 in any given pay period through the end of 2020 (for military members this is calculated on monthly rate of basic pay that is less than $8,666.66 in any given month). Applicability will be determined on a pay period-by-pay period basis and could vary according to the wages subject to OASDI withholding. The deferral will not impact those employees in Retirement Plans not subject to Social Security withholding (i.e. CSRS).
 
 
 Please be advised that the IRS guidance advises that the deferred amount of OASDI tax be collected between January 1-April 30, 2021, more information to come from DFAS on exactly how collection will occur. The IRS is still working to determine how the deferral and collection will impact employees’ W-2s. Employees should be made aware that the temporary deferral of the 6.2% OASDI withholding does not eliminate them from being liable for the tax should they depart from Federal Civilian Employment."	Payroll Tax Deferment
Mil FAQs Payroll Tax Deferral v12	Mil FAQs Payroll Tax Deferral v12
PAYROLL TAX DEFERMENT FACT SHEETS	PAYROLL TAX FACT SHEETS
"The attached Tax Deferral Pamphlet outlines the total dollar amount both military and civilians will receive *in excess of their normal paychecks* for all of 2020.
 
 
 Using a military member as an example, a SrA with 3 years of service will receive $571.09 over the course of September - December 2020.
 
 
 These four months will have 8 paychecks, so $571.09 divided by those 8 paychecks results in $71.39 per paycheck. This SrA will receive $71.39 more than what they normally receive during the last four months of 2020.
 
 
 Likewise, the first four months of 2021, this SrA will repay $71.39 per paycheck on those first 8 paychecks of the year. The exact amount taken away in 2020 will be the amount paid back in 2021, regardless of pay raises that happen in 2021.
 
 
 The figures posted in this pamphlet are estimates, and there could be other factors to make your specific amount different than what is posted here. Check your LES for exact figures."	2020 Tax Deferral Pamphlet
"Step 1: Complete the PCS packet 
  For help: PCS Guidance Packet
 Step 2: Create a Comptroller Services Portal Inquiry (usaf.dps.mil/teams/SAFFMCSP/portal) and attach the completed PCS packet (Include in the ticket all the apply: PCS orders & amendments, all airfare itineraries, lodging receipts, receipts over $75, DD Form 788, and Recruiter's Assistance Letter (RAP). First Term Airman (FTA) must bring BMT/Tech school certificates)
 Step 3: Schedule for an in-processing brief to finalize your paper work and travel itinerary with a technician through https://7CPTS-AppointmentScheduler.as.me/"	In-Process with Dyess Finance
If you're PCSing out and would like to be cleared from vMPF, please create a Military Pay inquiry with a subcategory of PCS Outprocessing no later than 30 days before your projected departure date (PDD) and attach a copy of your PCS orders. Make sure you include your projected departure date (PDD) in the title or description	Dyess Finance PCS Out-Processing
"Aloha,
 
 
 If you have been selected to virtually in-process, please review the attached powerpoint for instructions on how to complete the automated PCS tool (Excel). Thank you."	Virtual PCS In-Processing Instructions
"These are some questions that are awaiting answers from above base level:
 1. Will the amount of FICA income on the W2 for 2020 reflect the gross wages for the year?
 2. Will the Social Security deductions reflect what was actually withheld?
 3. Will the member have to pay the Social Security Tax that is deferred as part of the filing a tax return and the Social Security withheld being less than 6.2% of the gross wage for the year?
 4. If the member is paying the additional tax on the tax return is DFAS still going to collect it back from their wages?
 5. When will the collection process/procedures be available for release to the services?
 6. For members who separate prior to having the OASDI deferral collected back or waived, will it be one lump sum collected from final pay?
 7. If taken in lump sum from final pay and then collection waived after the fact will member be refunded the tax amount?
 8. If it is one lump sum will the W2 reflect the amount collected?
 
 9. A Guard or Reserve member serving on an active duty tour to the end of 2020, in AC, and is moving back to traditional RC role in Jan 2021, how will the OASDI additional collections take place?"	What are questions that have not been answered regarding tax deferral?
Quick Start Guide on how to use CSP	Finance Quick Start Guide
All documents needed by finance for separation	Separation Work File
Document needed to change state of legal residence	State of Legal Residence Certificate
To request PPM advance payment based on 60% of the GCC amount that TMO calculated on member's DD2278. The advance amount must be on the DD2278 that TMO approved during initial counseling. Please provide with copy of travel orders (including backside and all amendments, if there is any).	Travel PPM Advance
"To evaluate member's application for FSA.
 a. Serves as substantiating document for FSA payments and input into the member's pay account.
 b. Provides an audit trail for validating propriety of payments and to assist in collecting erroneous payments.
 c. Provides a record in service member's pay account and for safekeeping."	STATEMENT TO SUBSTANTIATE PAYMENT OF FAMILY SEPARATION ALLOWANCE (FSA)
Complete PCS Packet	PCS Packet
"Secretarial housing waivers provide temporary assistance to Airmen and their dependents to ease the transition of a Permanent Change of Station (PCS) move to the new Permanent Duty Station in limited situations that involve circumstances that require the Airmen and dependents to reside separately. Secretarial housing waivers are intended to be temporary in nature, and are not to exceed 1 year. Additional information regarding these programs may be found in the Personnel Systems Delivery Guide, Secretarial Housing Waiver (BAH/OHA).
 
 https://mypers.af.mil/app/answers/detail/a_id/35397/p/10 
 
 Forms:
 
 Links:"	Apply for Secretarial Housing Waiver
PCS Packet (Non-Accession)	PCS Packet (Non-Accession)
PCS Packet (Accessions Only)	PCS Packet (Accessions Only)
WPAFB Inpocessing briefing	PCS Inprocessing Brief
"319 CPTS Briefings
 319 CPTS Customer Service Hours"	319 CPTS Briefings & Customer Service Hours
72nd CPTS In-Processing Packet	Tinker AFB Finance In-Processing Packet
"PCS Supporting Documents
 
 
  The following items are required (when applicable): PCS Orders, any amendments, memorandums in lieu of amendments, receipts for any reimbursable expenses $75 or more, receipts for lodging at port, temporary lodging receipts, TDY en route for PCS lodging receipts, OCONUS lodging receipts, lodging non-availability letter (if lodged off base), airfare receipts, itinerary/receipt for government funded/contracted flights (rotator/Patriot Express/Etc.), vehicle scratch and dent form signed by VPC and individual receiving or dropping off vehicle (when authorized vehicle shipment and picked up or dropped off en route for PCS), and GTC/Bank statements showing currency exchange rates and amounts charged in USD when expenses are in foreign currency.
   
  Requirements change from time to time so please understand that this may not be an all-inclusive list or your situation may not be as common as to list the requirement. Some receipts are always required regardless of the dollar amount to include lodging, airfare/any transportation fare, and rental car (to include fuel).
 
 
  A good rule of thumb, when in doubt or unsure if it is needed, provide it (as long as it's not sensitive/Classified) or ask the individuals that will be approving/returning your claim for corrections. 
 
 Forms:
 
 Links:
 
 AFIMSC RM Portal"	What supporting documents am I required to submit with my PCS Travel Voucher?
"Per diem for a quarantine time period was previously not paid if lodging or meals were provided. SAF/A1 has clarified this entitlement as it prevented reimbursement of certain incurred costs. Travelers that have had quarantine lodging or M&IE entitlements denied on their PCS voucher due to either portion being provided by government, prior to Temporary Lodging Expense, may be authorized additional travel entitlements. 
 
 If you were denied quarantine per diem due to meals or lodging provided by the government, please contact your local Finance office to review your travel voucher.
 Forms:
 *travel voucher packet, quarantine letter, receipts, orders, and anything with the original submission
 
 
 Links:
 
 *Through the DOHA process"	Quarantine Per Diem Change
"The question was asked and AFAFO's response is:
 The only payable option is HDP ROM. This is not a unique scenario and we have been asked about it already by several agencies and MAJCOMS. All of the scenarios quote an at-risk family member at the residence.
 There is no authority to authorize TDY in the local area for returning deployed or returning TDY personnel. 
 There is allowance to assist by using HDP ROM if the member is directed to quarantine/self-Isolate at the direction of the commander and the member is required to pay for the lodging.
 Yes, we understand $100 a day does not cover 100% of the costs associated with this option, it is what is authorized. It is $100 a day up to $1,500 (15 days) only. 
 The member has a home they can return to and are choosing not to due to family situation.
 I can understand the risks with family members at home, but the member can wear a mask and stay separated as much as possible. 
 -------------------------
 HDP-ROM for the local area. If directed by the Commander to isolate in a place other than their residence, and the member must pay for the lodging, HDP-ROM may be payable to the member at $100 a day, no additional money for meals. If the room is partially paid for or fully paid for by any method other than the member then no HDP-ROM is payable to the member.
 If the government contracts out the room, they may do so, but no HDP-ROM is payable to the member as the room is not paid for by the member.
 The member is authorized to ROM at their residence, if the commander directs it. No HDP-ROM is payable as it is their residence."	Entitlement ? for Member Return from Deployment/TDY and ordered to Restriction of Movement (ROM)
SLA Request	Special Leave Accrual Process
"When members are traveling for the purpose of a Permanent Change of Station move and a restriction of movement (ROM) is directed, members will initiate a ROM at their residence or appropriate domicile (i.e. dormitory, TLE, hotel,) at the official duty location (PDS or TDY en route) identified on the PCS orders. Any ROM action taken outside of the duty station location will be charged as leave en route. 
 
 Forms:
 Memorandum in Lieu of Orders signed by MPF Assignments section or member’s unit commander
 
 Links: 
 https://mypers.af.mil/app/answers/detail/a_id/46624
 AFIMSC RM Portal"	Restriction of Movement Policy
"PCS In-processing can be accomplished Tuesdays and Thursdays at 0900 in building 1030 room 104. Please bring orders, airfare receipts, receipts for lodging at the port or for TLE, or receipts for any other reimbursement over $75.
 
 
 If you're part of a GSU not located on Buckley you may complete the attachment below and submit via a CSP inquiry to in-process."	PCS In-Processing
"Separation/Retirement briefings are held in bldg 1030 rm 102/103 on the 1st & 3rd Wednesday of the month at 0900.
 
 
 Travel vouchers must be completed within 6 months of separation or 3 years after retirement. 
 
 
 If retiring, you will also need to submit a copy of your DD 1172 (DEERS enrollment form)."	Separation and Retirement Package
"In order to update your BAH please complete the attached 594 and follow the ""How-to"" instructions.
 
 
 You must download the 594 to your desktop and open it from the desktop. Along with the 594 please attach the applicable back up documentation such as: dorm termination letter, marriage certificate, divorce decree, parenting agreement, youngest child's birth certificate etc.
 
 
 FOR CHILDREN BORN OUT OF WEDLOCK ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS MAY APPLY:
 
 DAFMAN65-116 Vol 1
 (Change) 26.7.1.1. For children born out of wedlock, a court document is required if the father claims to have joint or primary physical custody of the child. (T-1) Absent the court order, it is the member’s responsibility to prove custody in order to be authorized dependent rate BAH for the child. Per the Defense Finance and Accounting Service Office of General Counsel, at a minimum, the member needs to provide a notarized letter or affidavit signed by the mother stating the member has joint or primary physical custody of the child to include the date physical custody started and/or the dates the father has custody during the year. (T-0)Along with the notarized letter, the member needs to provide proof the child is living with the service member or in the vicinity of the service member’s permanent duty station. (T-1) Items that could be used, but are not limited to, are: DEERS printout showing the child’s address, Tricare enrollment showing where the child will be receiving medical treatment, daycare receipts for the child in the local area, or utility bills in the mother’s name showing an address in the local area.
 
 OR
 
 26.6.2.2. Dependent Child Not in Member’s Custody. The requirement to pay child support and the amount thereof must be documented by a divorce decree, legal separation agreement, court order and/or a statement signed by both the member and the custodian of the child on whose behalf the support is paid. The signed statement must be notarized, identify the amount received, and indicate the custodian’s willingness to accept such support payments from the member. The amount paid must be at least equal to the BAH-Difference rate for the member’s grade. The signed statement should be submitted in conjunction with the appropriate legal document when the legal document: (T-0) 
 26.6.2.2.1. Is silent on dependent support.
 26.6.2.2.2. Does not state an amount of dependent support.
 26.6.2.2.3. Absolves the member of dependent support responsibilities.
 26.6.2.2.4. Requires an amount less than the BAH-Difference rate for the member’s grade."	Updating BAH/Dependent Status
"The following form is used to update a members dependency status. 
 
 
 Members divorcing (we require a copy of the divorce decree)
 
 
 Members adding a child (we require a copy of the child's births certificate) 
 
 
 Members newly married (we require a copy of the marriage certificate)"	AF Form 594 (BAH Form)
The following form is used to update your direct deposit information	Direct Deposit Form
"This form is intended for members that require a Basic Pay advance advance during Permanent Change of Stations (PCS) travel. We will also require a copy of your PCS orders to process the advance on your pay record. 
 
 
 CC signature is only required when any of the following apply:
 Requestor is E4 or below
 Request is for an amount greater than one months advance pay
 Requested repayment period is 13-24 months
 Request is made more than 30 days prior to PCS or 60-180 days after arrival at new PDS"	Basic Pay Advance Request - only allowed in conjunction with Permanent Change of Station (PCS)
"Your state of legal residence determines if you are required to have state taxes deducted from your pay. How much is deducted will be based on the marital status and exemptions that you claim
 
 
 
 This form is used to update your state of legal residence 
 
 
 Forms:
 
 DD2058
 
 
 Links:
 N/A"	State Of Legal Residence
"This form is used for a housing allowance and we require a copy of the members leasing agreement signed by the landlord and the tenant. 
 Forms:AF Form 1039.pdf
 
 
 
 Links:"	Housing Allowance Advance Form
"If you wish to choose one of these options, please see the below attached documentation. You will need the DD Form 2789 and Member checklist at a minimum. If you wish to file for financial hardship, you will need to also complete the AF IMT 2451. There are also instructions provided for each form. Once all forms and back up documentation have been completed, you will include in a single package and submit to Finance using CSP.
 Debt collection is started if a complete remission package is not received within 10 duty days after the acknowledging receipt of the due process.
 
 
 Forms:
 
 DD2789
 AF2451
 Waiver Application Checklist
 
 
 Links:
 
 https://www.dfas.mil/waiversandremissions/activemilitarywaivers/"	Do you have a Debt? Do you wish to file a remission or waiver?
"Quarantine Lodging and MI&E Matrix
  ​A1 has recently provided the latest interpretation on reimbursement of lodging and meals/incidentals during quarantine. Travelers in quarantine that may have incurred lodging and/or M&IE entitlements and were previously denied may be authorized additional travel entitlements. 
 
 
  If a [traveler] is provided Gov't lodging at no cost to the member but NO meals then the member would be authorized the M&IE portion of per diem.
  If a [traveler] is provided all three Gov't meals at no cost to the member but NO lodging then the member would be authorized the Lodging portion of per diem and only the Incidentals portion of the M&IE.
  ​Members may submit supplemental vouchers if they meet the criteria in A1 interpretation.
 
 For more information and fact sheets please use the link below.
 
 
 Forms:
 
 
 
 Links:
 https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/coronavirus/"	Interpretation on reimbursement of costs associated with quarantine
"Per DoD Memorandum, “Force Health Protection Guidance (Supplement 12) – Department of Defense Guidance for Personnel Traveling During the Coronavirus Disease 2019 Pandemic,” dated 6 Aug 2020, the ROM location will be considered as the official duty location. As such, leave will not be charged while in ROM, to include quarantine and self-isolation. Consequently, retroactive to 6 August 2020, subject DAF personnel charged leave during ROM may have their leave restored following guidelines prescribed by the Air Force Accounting and Finance Office (attached). Only the actual time in ROM is non-chargeable; the day the member is released is a chargeable day of leave, as they are no longer restricted.
 
 
  Please note - This does not authorize personnel transportation or lodging allowances, or per diem while in ROM, quarantine or self-isolation. Personnel are further NOT authorized Hardship Duty Pay (HDP)-ROM for time in ROM away from the duty station in conjunction with leave.
 
 
  If you meet the criteria outlined within the Approval Memo, please utilize the provided Leave Restoral document and submit it to our office utilizing a CSP inquiry. We will research and restore all leave days that were charged retroactive to 6 Aug 2020 in the event the criteria is met. 
 
 Forms:
 Attachments
 A1 ROM Approval Memo_20 Nov 20.pdf
 Restriction of Movement (ROM) Leave Restoral.doc
 
 Links:
 ?"	Leave Restoration for Leave Charged During Restriction of Movement (ROM)
"Have you recently PCSed to Seymour Johnson? You must attend the Finance and MPF in-processing briefing within 5 days of arrival to the base. 
 
 
 1. Briefings will be conducted each Monday, Wednesday, and Friday at 0900, in the mass briefing room of building 3010. No prior sign up needed, walk-ins are now accepted for this briefing. Please note, we will not conduct briefings on ACC family days, wing down days, or federal holidays.
 2. Members MUST attend this briefing prior to house hunting, leave, or additional in-processing. Failure to immediately in-process on the first available briefing will result in over or under payment of entitlements, and/or personnel records issues. Additionally, squadron commanders will be made aware of members that failed to immediately in-process.
 a. Members will attend this briefing after any required quarantines or ROM. 
 b. If in quarantine or experiencing symptoms of COVID19, DO NOT ATTEND until cleared by medical!
 3. Members must be in uniform, and bring all required documents in paper form, not electronic.
 
 a. Required Forms: PCS Orders (front and back), all amendments, lodging receipts, and airfare receipts"	PCS In-Processing
GTC Card Guidance for technical school members.	Tech School GTC Card Guidance at PDS
"BLUF: AF/A1 recently approved a waiver to not charge leave retroactive to 6 Aug 2020 for members unofficial travel Pre/Post ROM. In line with this waiver the 18th Comptroller Squadron has developed the following local guidance on how to submit a request.
 
 To request restoral of leave days in ROM members will need to submit the attached “Leave Restoral Memorandum” to the Comptroller Squadron signed by member and member’s Unit Commander. The day(s) of travel and day released from ROM will be chargeable leave days.
 
 Please use the attached “CSP Quick – Start Guide” for directions on how to create an inquiry. Each CSP inquiry must follow the format below:
 
 · Title: Leave Restoral
 · Category: Military Pay
 · Sub Category: Leave – Verification
 · Description: Submitting leave restoral memorandum for leave taken while in ROM
 · Attach signed memorandum as “Leave Restoration LAST, FIRST”
 
 For future leave requests, members will submit leave in LeaveWeb for the entire duration of time away from Kadena Air Base. Upon return to duty or completion of ROM members will not change the leave dates in LeaveWeb. Members will instead follow the procedures above to request restoral of leave days. Please be advised that these procedures can change as we receive more guidance from higher headquarters.
 
 Please direct all questions through CSP athttps://usaf.dps.mil/teams/SAFFMCSP/portal via Google Chrome, or contact 18 Comptroller Finance Customer Service at 632-3609."	Restoration of Leave Memorandum
"Please see link to calendar below to ensure employees get paid on time!
 Calendar"	2022 Civilian Pay Period Calendar
"The savings deposit program is for military members who qualify for CZTE. Interest is 10% annual, compounded quarterly. All payments must be made by the 10th of the month to accrue interest in the current month. Depending on your location the options you can contribute either by allotment, Eagle Cash Card, cash, check or money orders after being on station for 30 consecutive days through the finance customer service technician/cashier.
 
  You cannot deposit more than your monthly take home income.
 
  The maximum amount for accruing interest is $10,000. Every deposit must be in increments of $5.
 An SDP account payment, including all interest, will be issued automatically 120 days after the service member has left the combat zone. Upon returning from deployment, deposits will continue to draw interest for up to 90 days. If the service member prefers, he/she may request final withdrawal at any time before 120 days following return from deployment via myPay, but may forfeit some interest by doing so.
 Forms:
 
 SDP Tri-Fold.pdf
 
 
 Links:
 https://www.dfas.mil/MilitaryMembers/sdp/
 
 
 https://mypay.dfas.mil/#/"	Savings Deposit Program
"Social Security Payroll Tax Deferral - https://www.dfas.mil/taxes/Social-Security-Deferral/
 
 
  In order to provide relief during the COVID-19 pandemic, a Presidential Memorandum was issued on August 8, 2020 and guidance followed from Internal Revenue Service on August 28, 2020, to temporarily defer Social Security (Old Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI)) tax withholdings. This change is effective through the end of the 2020 calendar year.
 
  UPDATE: The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 was passed and extended the period for collecting deferred 2020 Social Security taxes. The period for collection is now January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021 (instead of January 1, 2021 to April 30, 2021). 
   
  At the end of December, the 2020 Social Security tax deferral will end. Beginning January 2021, the normal 6.2% Social Security tax withholdings will again be deducted from pay for military members and civilians, and an additional deduction for the deferred 2020 Social Security tax collection taken from pay.
 
  Per IRS guidance (as modified by the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021), the Social Security taxes deferred in 2020 will be collected from pay between January 1 and December 31, 2021.
 
  Military Members -
  For active duty military members, the 2020 deferred Social Security taxes will be collected in 24 installments, from your mid-month and end-of-month pay between January 1 and December 30, 2021.
 
  For reservists and guardsmen performing intermittent duty in 2021, the amount collected may not be the same every pay period. DFAS will collect 2% of net available from each weekly, mid-month and end-of-month pay, and will continue until the deferred taxes have been repaid in full.
 
  Beginning in January 2021, your myPay LES will reflect the monthly collection amount and contain a note in the remarks section that shows the remaining balance of deferred Social Security taxes.
 
  Civilian Employees –
  The amount of Social Security taxes deferred in 2020 will be collected in 24 installments between pay-periods ending January 16 and December 4, 2021.
 
  Beginning in January 2021, your myPay LES Remarks section will include the 2020 deferred OASDI collection amount in that pay period, as well as the remaining balance to be collected.
 
  If you separate or retire prior to the deferred Social Security tax being collected in full the unpaid balance will either be collected from your final pay or you may receive a debt letter with instructions for repayment.
 
  Background
  Pursuant to IRS Notice 2020-65 and at the direction of the Office of Management and Budget and Office of Personnel Management, Social Security (Old Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance) or “OASDI” tax withholdings were temporarily deferred from September through December 2020 and will be collected from wages paid between January 1, 2021 and December 31, 2021, for employees who had wages subject to OASDI of less than $4,000 in any given pay period. These actions were in response to the Presidential Memorandum issued on August 8, 2020.
 
   
  Military members are not eligible to opt-out of the deferral if their Social Security wages fall within the stated limits. The deferral will happen automatically.
 
  Civilian employees are not eligible to opt-out of the deferral if their Social Security wages fall within the stated limits. The deferral will happen automatically.
 
  Per IRS guidance, collection of the deferred taxes will be taken from your wages between January 1 and April 30, 2021 for both military members and civilian employees. Additional information on the collection process will be provided in the future.
 
  If a military member or civilian employee separates or retires in 2020 before the Social Security tax can be collected in 2021, they are still responsible for the Social Security tax repayment. Additional information on the collection process will be provided in the future.
 
  For questions on the temporary deferral of the 6.2% OASDI withholding: Visit the IRS page: https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/guidance-issued-to-implement-presidential-memorandum-deferring-certain-employee-social-security-tax-withholding
  For more information on financial readiness: Visit www.finred.usalearning.gov Visit your installation Military and Family Support Center to speak with a Personal Financial Manager or Counselor, or contact Military OneSource at https://www.militaryonesource.mil (1-800-342-9647).
  Still have questions? See the FAQs at https://www.dfas.mil/taxes/Social-Security-Deferral/ for more information.
 
 
 Forms:
 No Forms were mandated – Executive Order… not eligible to opt-out of the deferral 
 
 Links:
 IRS.gov 
 OPM.gov 
 www.dfas.mil/customerservice/ 
 https://mypay.dfas.mil/#/"	Social Security Tax Deferral Repayment Guidance
Quick reference guide on what CSP is, how to create a CSP profile or update your profile, how to create a CSP case, how to navigate, and how to track our case progression.	CSP User Guide & How-to-do
"At the end of December, the 2020 Social Security tax deferral will end. Beginning January 2021, the normal 6.2% Social Security tax withholdings will again be deducted and you will also see an additional deduction for the deferred 2020 Social Security tax collection taken from your pay.
 
  Collection Process:
   Per IRS guidance, the Social Security taxes deferred in 2020 will be collected evenly from your pay between January 1 and April 30, 2021.
 
  Beginning in January 2021, your LES within myPay will reflect the monthly collection amount and contain a note in the remarks section that shows the remaining balance of deferred Social Security taxes. If you would like to calculate the amount prior to your January LES becoming available, you can generally do so by multiplying 6.2% times the amount of basic pay received from September through December 2020. For more detailed information, visit: https://www.dfas.mil/taxes/Social-Security-Deferral/.
 
  Separating from Service - Collection Process:
   If you separate or retire prior to the deferred Social Security tax being collected in full, you are still responsible for the remainder of your Social Security tax repayment. The unpaid balance will be collected from your final pay or you may receive a debt letter with instructions for repayment.
 
  Tax Filing and W-2 Reporting:
  Your 2020 W-2 will be issued in January. You will receive a W-2c (Corrected Wages and Tax Statement) that includes the collection of deferred Social Security taxes in 2021; however, this does not change the deadlines established by the IRS for filing 2020 income tax returns. If you have questions on tax filing, the IRS provided instructions for employees receiving a W-2c due to the Social Security tax deferral. See IRS W-2 reporting link near the bottom of this message.
 
   Background Information:
   Social Security tax withholdings were deferred effective mid-month September through December 2020, for those members with a monthly rate of basic pay of less than $8,666.66. This action was in response to the Presidential Memorandum issued on August 8, 2020, the Internal Revenue Service Notice 2020-65 issued August 28, 2020, and at the direction of the Office of Management and Budget and the Office of Personnel Management.
 
   For more information, visit: https://www.dfas.mil/taxes/Social-Security-Deferral/
 
   IRS information:
   - Tax Deferral Implementation: https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/guidance-issued-to-implement-presidential-memorandum-deferring-certain-employee-social-security-tax-withholding
   - W-2 Reporting:https://www.irs.gov/forms-pubs/form-w-2-reporting-of-employee-social-security-tax-deferred-under-notice-2020-65
 
   For more information on financial readiness:
   - Service members and retirees may contact your nearest installation Military and Family Support Center.
 
   - Contact Military OneSource, https://miltaryonesource.mil for financial counseling and tax consultation support up to 365 days post separation and retirement.
 
  Forms:
 No Forms were mandated – Executive Order… not eligible to opt-out of the collection of deferral nor eligible to pay back lump sum in lieu of 24 pay deductions
 
 Links:
 IRS.gov 
 OPM.gov 
 www.dfas.mil/customerservice/ 
 
 https://mypay.dfas.mil/#/"	Collection of 2020 Social Security Tax Deferral
This PowerPoint give an overview of what to expect financially during your deployment.	Pre-Deployment Finance Brief
"This notice provides an update to the prior notification, Subject ""Collection of 2020 Social Security Tax Deferral"" sent December 21, 2020.
 
  The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 was passed and extended the period for collecting deferred 2020 Social Security taxes. The period for collection is now January 1 through December 31, 2021 (instead of January 1, 2021 to April 30, 2021).
 
  Key Points:
  - The amount of Social Security taxes deferred in 2020 will be collected in 24 installments, out of your mid-month and end-of-month pay, between January 1 and December 30, 2021.
 
  - Normal 6.2% Social Security tax withholdings will also be deducted from your pay, beginning January 2021.
 
  - Beginning in January 2021, your LES within myPay will reflect the monthly collection amount and contain a note in the remarks section that shows the remaining balance of deferred Social Security taxes.
 
  - If you separate or retire prior to the deferred Social Security tax being collected in full, you are still responsible for the remainder of your Social Security tax repayment. The unpaid balance will be collected from your final pay or you may receive a debt letter with instructions for repayment.
 
 
  Background Information:
  Pursuant to IRS Notice 2020-65 and at the direction of the Office of Management and Budget and Office of Personnel Management, Social Security (Old Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance) or ""OASDI"" tax withholdings were temporarily deferred from September through December 2020 and will be collected from wages paid between January 1, 2021 and December 30, 2021, for employees who had wages subject to OASDI of less than $4,000 in any given pay period. These actions were in response to the Presidential Memorandum issued on August 8, 2020.
 
  For additional information to include Frequently Asked Questions, visit: https://www.dfas.mil/taxes/Social-Security-Deferral/
 .
 
  IRS information: 
   - Tax Deferral Implementation: https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/guidance-issued-to-implement-presidential-memorandum-deferring-certain-employee-social-security-tax-withholding
 
   - W-2 Reporting: https://www.irs.gov/forms-pubs/form-w-2-reporting-of-employee-social-security-tax-deferred-under-notice-2020-65
 
 
  For more information on financial readiness:
  - Service members and retirees may contact your nearest installation Military and Family Support Center.
 
  - Contact Military OneSource, https://miltaryonesource.mil
 For financial counseling and tax consultation support up to 365 days post separation and retirement.
 
 Forms:
  
 Links:"	Extended Collection Period for Social Security Tax Deferral
OASDI Collection Period Extension for civilian payroll	OASDI Collection Period Extension
OASDI Civilian Collection Fact Sheet	OASDI Civilian Collection Fact Sheet
Military Social Security Tax Deferral Collection Fact Sheet	Military Social Security Tax Deferral Collection Fact Sheet
Civilian Social Security Tax Deferral Collection Fact Sheet	Civilian Social Security Tax Deferral Collection Fact Sheet
Deferring Payroll Tax Obligations in Light of the Ongoing COVID–19 Disaster	Presidential Memo-Deferring Payroll Tax
FAQs and Links on the Deferred Social Security Repayment for 2021	Social Security Repayment FAQs
Use this template to restore ROM leave that was previously charged.	ROM Leave Restoral MFR Template
"Below are the required training and forms for each access request for ATAAPS.
 
 
 ATAAPS Timekeepers:
 Completion of DD 2875
 DATAAPS Timekeeper Power Point Training
 https://disa.deps.mil/service/dodataaps/SitePages/DODATAAPS.aspx
 DATAAPS Timekeeper Joint Knowledge Online Training (JBSA requirement, highly encouraged for other locations)
 https://jko.jten.mil/
 Specialized Privacy Training, Identifying and Safeguarding Personally Identifiable Information (PII)
 https://dl.cyber.mil/trn/online/disa_pii_v40_final_web/launch.html
 Timekeeper access is requested through CSP following the below steps:
 Access CSP site: https://usaf.dps.mil/teams/SAFFMCSP/portal/SitePages/Home.aspx
 Click on Create Inquiry
 Input request for self or select other (only when submitting on behalf of someone else) fill out all required fields under Customer details.
 Under Inquiry Details select Civilian Pay with Sub-category ATAAPS Access Request.
 In the Description field provide the following information:
 Timekeeper:
 
 DD Form 2875 (block 13. Designate UIC and list/name of Teams needing access to)
 Attach-JKO certifier cert (if applicable), ATAAPS Power Point Cert and PII Cert.
 Click “Submit”
 
 
 ATAAPS Certifiers:
 Forms Accounting & Management Systems (FAMS) request for Appointment (NEW!! Replacing Electronic copy of DD 577)
 Any of the following 3 trainings is acceptable:
 FOB 105-FM Body of Knowledge
 CFI 100-Certifying Officer and Accountable Official Course
 DAO 101 (DAO 101 training can be done in FAMS if needed)
 ATAAPS Certifier Joint Knowledge Online Training (JBSA requirement, highly encouraged for other locations)
 ATAAPS Certifier Power Point Training
 Specialized Privacy Training, Identifying and Safeguarding Personally Identifiable Information (PII)
 Certifier appointment is requested through FAMS following the below steps:
 Individuals requesting appointment as ATAAPS Certifiers (Departmental Accountable Officials) will need to submit their request using FAMS.
 Access FAMS site:
 Sign in using CAC authentication cert
 Click on Request Appointment/Termination
 Apply for Departmental Accountable Official
 Apply for ATAAPS Certifying Officer/Time and Attendance Certifier
 Fill in all required tabs with the requested information
 On the Training Tab you will need to load your certificate for DAO 101/CFI 100/FOB 105. Training must have been completed within a year of request. (When uploading certificate, it must be labeled “LastNameNameOfCert i.e. SmithDAOCert/SmithCFICert/SmithFOBCert” to ease this process. Ensure there are no spaces or special characters in the file name, otherwise the training will not upload.)
 Appointing Authority must be Commander or equivalent on G-Series orders
 Click “Submit”
 Once the appointing authority has appointed, appointee must accept appointment in FAMS for completed DD 577 to be generated.
 ***Note: If your FAMS personal information is not correct in regards to email address or organization you will need to go to DEERS to update this information.***
 Once appointed in FAMS, certifier access is requested through CSP following the below steps:
 Access CSP site:
 Click on Create Inquiry
 Input request for self or select other (only when submitting on behalf of someone else) fill out all required fields under Customer details.
 Under Inquiry Details select Civilian Pay with Sub-category ATAAPS Access Request.
 In the Description field provide the following information:
 Certifier:
 - FAMS Appointment request has been approved.
 - Roster Access: List name of rosters needing access to.
 Attach-JKO certifier cert (if applicable), ATAAPS Power Point Cert and PII Cert.
 Click “Submit”
 We ask that you follow these steps to allow the Civilian Pay Liaison Office to process the request with minimal requests for corrections so we can grant the required access.
 
 
 Forms:
 DD 577 (FAMS)
 DD 2875
 
 
 Training:
 PII Training
 DISA DATAAPS Certifier Training
 JKO Training (if applicable)
 
 
 Links:
 FAMS
 JKO
 ATAAPS Certifier Power Point Training
 Specialized Privacy Training, Identifying and Safeguarding Personally Identifiable Information (PII)"	DATAAPS System Access (Certifier and Timekeeper)
"ATTENTION: The following information is for military members (all services and components, federal civilian employees and military retirees.
 
 **************************
 All military members, military retirees and federal civilian employees using the myPay pay management application can submit or update their IRS Form W-4 (Employee’s Withholding Certificate) using the redesigned 2021 format to ensure sufficient federal income tax withholding is applied to their pay account. Upon selecting the Federal Withholding option, myPay will display the customer’s current federal withholding election. Once Edit is selected, the input screen will reflect the 2021 W-4 format
 
 Note: Updating this information is not required for current military retirees, military members or federal employees.
 
 Customers who wish to adjust Federal Income Tax Withholding may complete and submit 2021 IRS W-4 information.
 
 Employees that have questions can contact their servicing human resource office, payroll office and/or customer service representative. Please note, these offices may be limited in the information they can provide as they are not tax preparers nor financial advisors. Retirees are advised to contact their tax preparer or financial advisor. Employees can update their tax withholding throughmyPay.
 
 
 Forms:
 IRS W-4 
 
 
 Links:
 https://mypay.dfas.mil/
 
 https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/fw4.pdf"	W-4 Procedures
"Federal employees who received PCS reimbursement and elected/declined Withholding Tax Allowance (WTA-defers your federal taxes on your PCS payment) must submit the following documents below once you have filed your Federal Income Tax for the year you received your travel payment on. Please provide these documents via the Comptroller Services Portal under the Category: Travel Section Sub-Category: Civilian - Relocation Income Tax Allowance (RITA).
   
  Employees provide (Templates and examples are loaded below) Completed DD form 1351-2- Please complete all the highlighted areas on the DD form 1351-2 New completed FMS-2231 (Direct Deposit) - with a current signature and date Current tax return- A copy of the current tax year’s taxes will need to be seen but not kept with the RITA form RITA form signed Pg 2 (signed by spouse if filed jointly) - If you filed jointly make sure your spouse has also signed and dated the form.Orders
   
  Note: If you have received a debt letter from Ellsworth AFB (see sample debt letter attached below) stating you have a travel debt it may be because you elected WTA which is meant to defer the federal taxes for PCS payment. If you made this election then you must file a RITA Voucher to offset this debt. Your debt amount should match your WTA payment you received. 
 
 Forms:
 RITA Checklist
 DD Form 1351-2 (Travel Voucher/Sub Voucher)
 You must claim RITA in block 18
 Block 20 must be signed and dated by you and your reviewer/supervisor
 DD Form 1614 (Travel Authorization/Orders) with all amendments
 Include Direct Deposit Form SF1199A
 All W-2s (travel and payroll), including spouse’s if filing jointly, for the year you are claiming RITA.
 RITA Certified Statement of Income and Tax Filing Status
 Completed Federal Income tax return (Form 1040) including pages pertaining to wages, tips and other compensation and additional income and moving expense deductions.
 Completed State and Local income tax returns if your travel pay was taxed by a state
 
 Links:"	Civilian PCS - RITA Filing Procedures
"From DFAS…
 
 “I believe you are already aware, but the use or lose leave balance for all DJMS-AC members was overstated on January LESs. The fix for future month LESs is in process, and IT is working to correct the programming error for January and send corrected January LESs. SmartDocs will be sent to affected members this week. Also, a message will be posted on the myPay homepage today.
 
 The root cause was a programming error when updating DJMS for the new W-4 form.”"	Jan LES-Inaccurate leave/use lose balance
"Under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) - 22 Dec 2017, moving expenses and relocation payments paid by an employer on and after January 1, 2018, are identified as taxable in-kind benefits. For the 2020 tax year, this affects the transportation costs incurred then paid on the behalf of the member for the period of 1 Nov, 2019 – October 31, 2020. Per IRS guidelines, in-kind benefits must be closed out by October 31 of the year.
 
  For CYs 2020 through 2025, the Air Force will report the household goods as income to the IRS and pay the taxes on behalf of the employee, which will create a debt to the Air Force and a tax liability to the member. While this is a change from previous year’s, it will take the concern of tax penalties away from the employee. The tax liability will be reflected as a “Due U.S” voucher and will be mailed to the member in January 2021 (closer to tax filing season) and will provide members the option of establishing a repayment plan or pay a lump sum amount. Note: Standard issue indebtedness notification letters offer waiver options. However, there is not a waiver option for this specific tax indebtedness.
 
 Forms:
  
 Links:
 https://www.dfas.mil/CivilianEmployees/civrelo/Civilian-Moving-Expenses-Tax-Deduction/Background/
 https://www.dfas.mil/Portals/98/Documents/Civilian%20Employees/Third_Party_Payments%20Fact%20Sheet_Feb%202020.pdf?ver=2020-03-30-080031-277"	Tax Year 2018 W-2C Penalty Relief
"1. ISSUE: Air Force civilians incurred debt to the Air Force as part of their 2020 Permanent Change of Station (PCS) government-funded moves for the period of November 1, 2019 to October 31, 2020. Per IRS rules, in-kind benefits must be closed out by October 31 of the year. The amount due involves taxes that were paid on employees’ behalf by the Department of the Air Force and includes Federal Income Tax Withheld, Social Security and Medicare. The Air Force is working with impacted civilians for reimbursement. 
   
  2. BACKGROUND: In accordance with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA)-22 Dec 2017, moving expenses and relocation payments paid by an employer on and after January 1, 2018, are taxable, in-kind benefits to the employee. In 2018 and 2019, the Air Force identified the individual relocation costs and reported that additional income to the IRS, but the Air Force did not pay the required taxes to the IRS on behalf of the employee. The household goods (HHG) gross amount was added to income on the employees’ W2s with no taxes withheld. When employees filed tax returns with the IRS in those years, they owed taxes to the IRS. The delayed reporting resulted in some employees filing amended tax returns. Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) and Air Force General Council worked with the IRS to have penalties waived for the late reporting, but interest accrued by the Air Force’s delayed reporting was not waived. The IRS instructed the Air Force to withhold taxes and report the income in a timely manner.
   
  In line with other DoD agencies in 2020, the Air Force is now reporting the HHG income to the IRS and paying taxes on behalf of employees at the time of their moves, creating a debt to the Air Force. This approach prevents the employee from having late penalties and owing interest to the IRS for not paying the tax at the time it was reported. Employees will receive one travel W-2 that will include the increase in gross income and taxes for all PCS-related vouchers filed and HHGs. 
   
  The tax liability will be reflected as a Due U.S. voucher, which is a debt to the employee. The employee will receive a copy of the voucher and notification about repayment options. Note: Standard issue indebtedness notification letters offer waiver options. However, there is not a waiver option for tax indebtedness.
   
  The Air Force will allow the employee to repay the debt all at once or set up a repayment plan. The employee can choose to repay the balance of the indebtedness at any time after a payment plan is established.
   
  The employee will receive a Travel W-2 at the end of the year that will include the increase in gross income and taxes for all PCS-related vouchers filed and HHGs. Tax year 2020 W-2s will be mailed to employees and also available through myPay. Employees will file their tax return for the calendar year and subsequently file a Relocation Income Tax Allowance (RITA) voucher to help offset the additional tax burden imposed by the PCS move. This is not a 100-percent dollar for dollar offset as each individual’s tax situation is unique.
   
  3. PA POSTURE: Active. Messaging should remain within the confines of this document. Questions or issues outside of this guidance will be forwarded to AFIMSC/PA. 
   
  4. HOLDING STATEMENT: Support for Air Force employees and their families affected by taxes levied for government-funded permanent change of station moves is a top Air Force priority. The Air Force will offer several repayment plan options that best meet employee needs in order to ease any financial burden the taxes may cause. We’re also conducting an awareness campaign to make employees aware of this tax situation when they plan their moves.
   
 
 Forms:
  
 Links:
 https://www.dfas.mil/Portals/98/Documents/Civilian%20Employees/Third_Party_Payments%20Fact%20Sheet_Feb%202020.pdf?ver=2020-03-30-080031-277
 
 https://www.dfas.mil/CivilianEmployees/civrelo/Civilian-Moving-Expenses-Tax-Deduction/"	Employee Household Goods Tax Debt
"Good afternoon,
 
 
 There were some issues with people saying the Memos and Guidelines Articles so it has been posted here as well."	DTS SAVs and Monthly Training
Household Goods Tax Debt Q&A	Household Goods Tax Debt
"Any updates to payroll tax withholding are forward looking only. 
 Military Only – does not pertain to civilians: Updating your state of legal residence will not retroactively apply to any period. You will have to file annual tax filings with those states to retrieve any funds already withheld and sent to that particular state.
 
  The preferred route for Civilian employees to update their state tax withholding is through DFAS' myPay website (https://mypay.dfas.mil/#/).
 Another option is to complete the below form and submit an inquiry into CSP for the Civilian Pay team to update. 
 
 
 
 Forms:
 https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/fw4.pdf
 
 
 
 
 Links:
 https://mypay.dfas.mil/#/"	Update State Tax Withholding
"How to Apply Online:
 Complete your loan application by logging in to My Account through TSP.gov. Note: Depending on your marital status, the type of loan you are requesting, and how you want to receive your funds, you may need to take additional steps to submit your application.
 If the online tool prompts you to print and submit your loan request, you must open and print the loan agreement package supplied to you, sign and date the form, include any additional required information, and send the completed request to TSP. You can then upload your submission in My Account, or you can mail or fax your request according to the instructions on the form.
 Submit this request one time only. TSP will cancel any subsequent request they receive.
 Make sure your correspondence address is updated with TSP by logging into DFAS' myPay website before you begin this process. You cannot update your correspondence address in TSP.gov or by visiting CPTS. You can only update your TSP correspondence address by using DFAS myPay.
 
 
  Once your loan is approved, you will be notified by mail from TSP directly to your specified TSP mailing address.
 
 
  TSP transfers the data file to DoD and ultimately DFAS to establish the loan repayment debt. Your finance office is not involved in establishing the loan repayment debt. You will see the debt directly on your LES when repayment starts. The letter TSP is mailing to you will provide the details. Generally, TSP cites no later than 60-days after loan issuance the debt will hit your pay record. This is because members can request a TSP loan at any time and DoD has established cut-off dates each month to stop adjustments for that month's pay.
 Civilians:
 When transferring to a new agency or organization, TSP repayments must be reestablished. This is accomplished by completing the TSP-19 form and submitting to your local payroll office. The payroll office will then send a DFAS Remedy ticket for processing. Once received and processed, the payments should resume one to two pay periods after submission.
 For more information on the TSP-19 please go to the following link:
 https://www.tsp.gov/bulletins/10-8.pdf
 Additional information on resuming loan payments and defaulting on your loan can be reviewed on the following link:
 https://www.tsp.gov/publications/tspfs04.pdf (Note: Read information on Resuming Loan Payments and Defaulting on a Loan on Pg. 6 of Fact Sheet: Effect of Nonpay Status on Your TSP Account.
 
 
 Forms:
 For initial application, forms may vary, and it is imperative you check with TSP.gov for complete requirements. To reestablish loan payments, TSP-19 is required.
 
 Links:
 
 https://www.tsp.gov/loan-basics/applying-for-a-loan/"	TSP Loan
"DFAS has found an issue delaying the first 2020 OASDI Tax Deferral collection that was to occur in PPE January 16, 2021, impacting for 13,090 employees. Collections for these employees will start in PPE January 30, 2021, which means they will have 1 additional collection in December. SMARTDOCs will be sent to the impacted employees to make them aware of the 1 pay period delay.
   
  This issue was caused by a missed impact within our DCPS retro software that eliminated an individual’s special “OASDI deferral flag” being used to track the OASDI deferrals when a 2020 corrective/overlaying transaction was applied after the new year and before we established the collection amounts in our debt module. Once that flag was gone, we didn’t recognize the employee as having OASDI deferred until we reviewed the transactional data, as that flag was the driver for establishing the collection population.
   
  Rest assured that the employees’ collections will be established appropriately and we have verified the deferral amounts were not impacted by the above issue. 
 
  The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 was passed and extended the period for collecting deferred 2020 Social Security taxes. The period for collection is now January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021.
 
 At the end of December, the 2020 Social Security tax deferral ended. Beginning January 2021, the normal 6.2% Social Security tax withholdings resumed normal deductions from pay for military members and civilians, and an additional deduction for the deferred 2020 Social Security tax collection taken from pay.
 
 Per IRS guidance (as modified by the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021), the Social Security taxes deferred in 2020 will be collected from pay between January 1 and December 31, 2021.
 
 Military Members -
 For active duty military members, the 2020 deferred Social Security taxes will be collected in 24 installments, from your mid-month and end-of-month pay between January 1 and December 30, 2021.
 
 For reservists and guardsmen performing intermittent duty in 2021, the amount collected may not be the same every pay period. DFAS will collect 2% of net available from each weekly, mid-month and end-of-month pay, and will continue until the deferred taxes have been repaid in full.
 
 Beginning in January 2021, your myPay LES will reflect the monthly collection amount and contain a note in the remarks section that shows the remaining balance of deferred Social Security taxes.
 
 Civilian Employees –
 The amount of Social Security taxes deferred in 2020 will be collected in 26 installments between pay-periods ending January 16 and December 31, 2021.
 
 Beginning in January 2021, your myPay LES Remarks section will include the 2020 deferred OASDI collection amount in that pay period, as well as the remaining balance to be collected.
 
 Key Facts
 If you separate or retire prior to the deferred Social Security tax being collected in full the unpaid balance will either be collected from your final pay or you may receive a debt letter with instructions for repayment. Collection will occur through the debt management process. You will receive a debt letter via US mail which will provide instructions for repayment. Payments can be made online via Pay.gov.
 
 Regarding 2020 Social Security Tax Deferral Form W-2Cs, please see “Instruction for Employees” section via the link below.
 
 Background
 Pursuant to IRS Notice 2020-65 and at the direction of the Office of Management and Budget and Office of Personnel Management, Social Security (Old Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance) or “OASDI” tax withholdings were temporarily deferred from September through December 2020 and will be collected from wages paid between January 1, 2021 and December 31, 2021, for employees who had wages subject to OASDI of less than $4,000 in any given pay period. These actions were in response to the Presidential Memorandum issued on August 8, 2020.
   
 Forms:
 2020 Tax Deferral Pamphlet and Fact Sheets
 
 Links:
 https://www.irs.gov/forms-pubs/form-w-2-reporting-of-employee-social-security-tax-deferred-under-notice-2020-65
 Military Member FAQ
 Military Member Fact Sheet
 Civilian FAQ
 
 Civilian Fact Sheet"	2020 OASDI Tax Deferral Collection
"Team Ramstein,
 
 Members stationed at Geographically Separated Units (GSUs) may in-process with finance virtually at the following linkhttps://efinance.sso.cce.af.mil/login?4 from a CAC enabled computer. The vouchers will be submitted directly to the PCS team for review. 
 
 
 Members can find a comprehensive user guide on the home page of the Comptroller Service Portal attached to this post. Additionally, the guide is available on the virtual in processing website. To access the user guide from the website, click “PCS” in the top right-hand corner of the website. After you begin creating your voucher, the guide is available under the “Briefings” hyperlink."	In-Processing for GSUs Outside KMC Area
"Unsure which TSP to contribute to?
 
 
 TSP - Traditional vs. Roth
 Read this article to tell the difference between Traditional TSP and Roth TSP."	Traditional/Roth TSP - What's the difference?
JBPH-H ROM procedures.	JBPH-H ROM Procedures
Scheduled partial pays can be set up for any TDY greater than 45 days and are paid out every 30 days after initial payment is received. The first partial pay will include Airfare from home station to deployed location along with any hotel and taxi needed prior to getting to final destination. Please upload all support documentation for your scheduled partial pay in DTS.	DTS Deployment Orders & Voucher (Scheduled Partial Pay)
"Are you looking for a Leave & Earning Statement (LES) that is over a year old?
 You can submit a request through CSP to your local finance office or
 
  the link below allows you to submit a request for an older LES that is no longer available via MyPay.
 
  https://corpweb1.dfas.mil/askDFAS/ticketInput.action?subCategoryID=16124
 
  Note- LES requests using the link above are submitted to DFAS and can take up 90 days.
 
 
 Forms:
 N/A
 
 
 Links:
 https://corpweb1.dfas.mil/askDFAS/ticketInput.action?subCategoryID=16124"	Request LES Statements >1 year-old
"Starting 1 January 2021, for all service members, there will be a MISCELLANEOUS DEBT collecting against your record.
 
 
 This is for the recoupment of the 2020 Social Security Tax Deferral. In 2020, Active Duty service members had their Social Security collection deferred until 2021. on 1 January DFAS created the repayment for these deferred collections through December 2021. So you will see this debt collect back every month until the end of the year.
 
 
 
 
 More information on the tax deferral can be found here:
 
 
 https://www.dfas.mil/taxes/Social-Security-Deferral/"	MISCELLANEOUS DEBT?
"On January 1st 2018 there was a change to policy that has impacted PCS travel entitlements in regard to Transportation and House Hold Goods (HHG). Both of these entitlements were not previously taxed items and are now considered taxable items. For those employees that had their House Hold Goods paid for by the AF will need to pay the taxes on these two entitlements from 2018 forward. Federal employees will receive the outstanding debt letter from the Travel processing center (see below pg.2) which will not provide the exact reason the travel debt is for. You will need to submit an inquiry through the Comptroller Services Portal to request a copy of your voucher summary for your PCS (please include your full SSN). The comments section of the voucher summary provide you with the reason for the deb which could be for HHG’s or if the employee didn’t process their Relocation Income Tax Allowance (RITA). If the letter is for the HHG’s please note that this is a valid debt based on the policy change and arrangements to pay back the taxes the Air Force paid the vendor on your behalf must be established before having your wages garnished. The last page of your debt letter will have the Voluntary Repayment Agreement for Travel Indebtedness that can be filled out to establish a payment arrangement for this debt. Please submit the debt letter with the repayment portion completed to the CSP portal (link below) and we will send it to the Travel processing center to start the repayment of the HHG’s debt.
  
 https://usaf.dps.mil/teams/SAFFMCSP/portal/SitePages/Home.aspx
 Copy and paste link using Google Chrome for best compatibility.
 
 When you submit your inquiry please make sure to submit it under Travel Section Sub-Catergory Travel Debts. In the Title field please put Civilian Travel Debts. This will allow us to properly assign and process your request for repayment."	Outstanding Travel Debt for Household Goods (HHG)
Please see attached COVID Special Leave Accrual (SLA) Frequently Asked Questions updated 6 April 2021.	COVID SLA FAQs
"Special Leave Accrual (SLA)
   
  Special leave accrual is granted to member’s who are unable to use their leave within the fiscal year due to Qualified Hazardous Duty Areas (QHDA)/Hostile Fire/Imminent Danger Pay (HF/IDP). The member is encouraged and expected to exhaust all means of using the days within the FY. If the member does lose days to these particular missions, the lost days (you have to lose the days first) can be reinstated with O-6 (if delegated) approval.
   
  Upon crossing the FY, whatever the balance was prior to losing the days, is your protected limit. You can have up to 120 days protected, but if you cross the FY with only 61 days, your protected limit stays 61. This balance is protected for up to 3 more FY’s or until the member reduces their balance under the 60 day limit. In instances outside of QHDA or HF/IDP environments, the protection only lasts for 2 more FY’s or until the member reduces their balance under the 60 day limit.
   
  If the member takes leave and ever drops below their protected limit, the new lower balance will be protected for the remaining years or until the member reduces their balance under the 60 day limit.
 
 
 
 Forms:
 
 Links:"	SLA Guidance
"Team Osan,
 
 
 If you meet the criteria outlined in the below guidance you could get the days that you were required restriction of movement during your leave. Please read the guidance carefully, and if applicable complete the attached document (request of restriction of movement) along with your commander signature and return to finance using the comptroller service portal."	Restriction Of Movement Leave restorations
"Q1. Can members accrue up to 120 days of leave through 2024?
  A1. No, members cannot accrue up to 120 days of leave through 2023. Members may not accrue more than the 1 Oct 2021 carry over balance.
 
 
 
  · Q2. Will the current period of COVID SLA accrual be extended past the 30 Sep 2021 date due to existing COVID 19 impacts?
  A2. No current extension exists yet.
 
 
 
  · Q3. If a member takes leave during the year and the COVID SLA balance drops can they continue to accrue back up to the 1 Oct 2020 amount before the end of the FY?
  A3. No, once members CZ leave carry over balance drops below the 1 Oct 2021 amount then that becomes the new balance. If the amount drops to 60 or below then COVID SLA is then considered used. There is no option to accrue back up to the previous carryover balance.
 
 
 
  · Q4. Airmen that have carried over leave in FY21 should have to take 30 days of leave or risk losing leave at the end of the FY?
  A4. Yes, currently members with a carryover balance will be required to use 30 days or any excess leave at 30 Sep 2022 will be lost.
 
 
  Q5. How can members calculate their current use or lose based on incorrect LES data being reflected?
 
  A5. To calculate their correct Use/Lose number, the member will need to subtract 60 from the CZ LV Carryover Balance (listed in the remarks section on the LES). Then take that number and subtract it from the number in the Use/Lose leave block.
   
  · Q6. Can members sell back more than 60 days of leave upon retiring or separating due to COVID leave restrictions and the accumulation of excess leave?
  A6. No, currently there is no exception allowing members to sell back more than the maximum amount of 60 days in a career.
 
 
 
  · Q7. If leave is cancelled after the fact will the CZ leave balance be adjusted to credit those days back?
  A7. No, the entry will not be automatically updated when leave is cancelled/changed after the fact. A CMS case will need to be sent to DFAS in order to correct the entry and credit any days back toward the CZ SLA balance. 
 
 
 
 Forms:
 N/A
 
 
 Links:
 
 https://mypers.af.mil/app/answers/detail/a_id/50925"	COVID SLA FAQs - 6 April 2021
"For the Real Estate expense you need to have it claimed on a new DD1351-2 and have the DD 1705 completed.
 · If the Real Estate is for a Sales it must go back to the previous base to the JAG office for approval usually the CPO office here will help with that.
 · If the Real Estate is for purchase you must go through the CPO office to turn it in.
 REQUIRED DOCUMENTS
 1) DD 1351-2
 2) DD 1705 Must complete all highlighted areas –
 a. blk 8 comes from the order blk 26
 b. blk 9 Transportation agreement comes from blk 21 on orders
 c. blks 13&14 must match the closing disclosure statement for closing date and sales/purchase price
 3) Closing disclosure or ALTA Statement
 4) Memo from legal if mbr’s claim was reduced
 
 
 On DD1351-2
 1) Block 18. Sale Expense, has to go back to previous base for approval and signed
 2) Block 19. Purchase Expense, signed off at new duty station.
 3) Block 20 Payment Approval by New Duty Station, Doesn’t matter either for Sales or Purchase will be signed off by CPO at the new duty station.
 
 
 Once all is done send in via a CSP inquiry:
 
 a) Your Travel voucher
 b) DD 1705, Memo’s if reduced
 c) Home sale closing disclosure statement
 d) PCS orders
 e) WTA statement
 
 f) 2231 direct deposit form"	Civilian PCS - Real Estate Claim
"Please provide an updated AF Form 594 and supporting documentation. AF Form 594 can be found in CSP under Policy memos & Guidelines Military Pay. Please ensure you update DEERS with the correct information also.
 
 
  Adding Spouse, Marriage Certificate
  Removing Spouse, Divorce Decree
  Adding Children, Birth Certificate
 
 
 Forms:
 AF Form 594
 
 
 
 Links:"	Updating your BAH? Click here
Make an inquiry with a DD1561 filled out. and make sure you have already filed your DTS voucher.	Want to claim FSA?
Make sure to upload your PCS Orders and this DLA form.	Applying for Advanced DLA?
"What is COVID-19 SLA?
 Due to COVID-19, the DoD has authorized military members to carry over up to 120 days of leave at the end of FY20, which was 30 September 2020, rather than the normally authorized 60 days. COVID-19 SLA will expire at the end of FY23 meaning members leave balance must be either equal to, or less than 60 days of leave as of 30 September 2023. It is important to note that your max SLA can decrease as it is used.
 
 How do I know if I have COVID-19 SLA?
 It only applies to members who had greater than 60 days of leave on 30 September 2020. In the members LES, under the remarks section, there should be a note that says “COMBAT ZONE LV CARRYOVER BAL >60 DAYS EXPIRES 30 SEP 2023”.
 
 General Information:
 DFAS charges leave as “last in, first out”; meaning current year leave earned is used first, and then COVID-19 SLA. Regular SLA does not follow this same set of rules. If a member has SLA, in any leave earned in any FY23 needs to be used in the respective FY or it will be lost on 30 September of that FY. Members earn .5 days of leave for every six, days served in a month, or 2.5 days of leave every month.
 
 Final Remarks:
 Do not lose your hard-earned leave! If you earned COVID-19 SLA, on 30 September 2020, your use/lose balance is inaccurate & you must take at least 30 days of leave in FY21. The BL or “Used leave” block on the LES must be greater than or equal to 30 days of leave every FY for members with SLA to not lose their leave earned in that Fiscal Year. For any questions regarding SLA please utilize the Comptroller Services Portal, if you are stationed at a GSU of Holloman AFB, please utilize our email at49cptsfso@us.af.mil."	COVID-19 SLA
"In order to file for TQSE reimbursement the following documents will need to be provided along with your supplemental PCS Voucher submittal.
 1. 1351-2
 2. Orders (detailing if TQSE is actual or fixed)
 3. Actual- Mbr must complete DD Form 2912
 a. DD Form 2912 must be completed
 b. Dates on the 2912 must be in order and any gaps must be explained
 c. Number of days must be authorized on the orders
 d. Authorized days cannot exceed 120 days
 e. Standard CONUS rate applies at $151 (Except Hawaii, Alaska and Guam are paid at their locality rate)
 f. Lodging includes room rate, taxes, fees and parking
 g. More than one room can be claimed if traveling with dependents
 h. Lodging receipts are required
 i. Itemized receipts are required for any meal over $74.99 (no alcohol is payable)
 j. Paid in 30 day increments (System requires 30 days for proper cost computation)
 k. If the employee gets per diem for travel, only dinner & lodging is paid
 l. Home cooked meals maybe claimed
 m. ALL home cooked meals must be added together and divided by number of days claimed to equal same dollar amount for each home cooked meal.
 n. Actual Expense TQSE is an actual expense reimbursement NTE a max based on standard CONUS rate
 TQSE Computation:
 Day 1 – 30 = daily rate NTE max rate at 100% employee, 75% spouse & dep over 12 years, 50% for dep under 12 years
 Day 31 – 120 = daily rate NTE max rate at 75% employee, 50% spouse & dep over 12 years, 40% for dep under 12 years
 Computation Example 1st 30 days – Employee, spouse and 1 child under 12
 1st 30 days the percentage is 100% + 75% + 50% = 225%
 225% X $151 (current CONUS rate) = $339.75
 Employee will be limited to actual cost or $339.75, whichever is less per day
 Computation Example 31-120 days – Employee, spouse and 1 child under 12
 1st 30 days the percentage is 75% + 50% + 40% = 165%
 165% X $151 (current CONUS rate) = $249.15
 Employee will be limited to actual cost or $249.15, whichever is less per day
 4. Fixed- Mbr will complete Fixed TQSE statement (this can be claimed on initial PCS Voucher)
 a. Limited to 30 days
 b. Employee may elect old or new PDS (unless old PDS is OCONUS)
 c. Fixed TQSE needs to be approved in the orders
 d. Fixed TQSE only needs to be claimed on the 1351-2
 e. DD Form 2912 is not needed
 f. If the employee does not claim a location on the 1351-2, it will be paid at the NPDS
 5. WTA Statement
 
 Once all is done send via CSP inquiry:
 Inquiry will be submitted under Category Travel Pay Sub-category Civilian – Temporary Quarters Subsistence Expense.
 1. 1351-2
 2. TQSE Fixed-TQSE fixed statement
 3. TQSE Actual-DD 2912 (itemized receipts for meal over $74.99)
 4. Orders
 5. WTA Statement
 
 6. Direct Deposit Information"	Civilian PCS – TQSE (Temporary Quarters Subsistence Expense)
"Q1: Who is eligible for this program?
 A1: This is a Total Force program, so any Regular Air Force, Air Force Reserve, or Air National Guard Airmen on Title 10 orders may be eligible, providing the situation meets the criteria established in the policy.
 Q2: What is the eligibility criteria for a qualifying PCS or PCA?
 A2: The following criteria must be met to be considered a qualifying PCS/PCA:
 . The Airman’s PCS/PCA authenticated orders must authorize movement of the Airman’s dependents at government’s expense.
 . The Airman is PCSing/PCAing from a duty station in one state to a duty station in another state, including Hawaii; Alaska; Washington, DC; and the U.S. territories.
 . Reimbursement is not authorized for moves upon accession, Career Intermission Program, retirement, or separation from the armed forces.
 . Qualifying relicensing costs must be incurred and paid after the date the member’s PCS/PCA orders are authenticated and within 24 months of the date the member’s PCS/PCA orders are authenticated.
 . Reimbursement for each qualifying PCS/PCA will not exceed $500 for PCS/PCA orders authenticated between 12 December 2017 and 19 December 2019, or $1,000.00 for PCS/PCA orders authenticated on or after 20 December 2019.
 
 
 Read full attachment for complete details"	Spouse Licensure Program Reimbursement
"Please include these forms with your CSP case:
 1. Separation/Retirement Orders 
 2. AF 594
 3. Separation Checklist
 
 
 Forms:
 af594.pdf
 Separation Checklist.pdf
 
 
 Links:"	Separating or Retiring?
"Please see the attachment for updated guidance on Special Leave Accrual (SLA) for fiscal year 2021. The Secretary of the Air Force has approved an extension to the SLA policy due to many DAF service members having difficulty reducing their leave balances to no more than 60 days by 30 September 2021.
   
 On 1 Oct 21, eligible Service members (active service between 1 Oct 20 - 30 Sep 21) who have annual leave in excess of 60 days (not to exceed 120 days) as shown on their September 2021 Leave and Earnings Statement are automatically approved for SLA and may carry the balance (not to exceed 120 days) until 30 Sep 24. No action is required on the part of our service members. 
 It is important that members continue to manage their leave balances throughout the year and Commanders should continue to encourage and provide members with opportunities to use leave in the year it is earned. Any clarifying guidance, to include common Q&As will be available on the MyPers site.
 
 Forms:
 N/A
 
 
 Links:
 https://mypers.af.mil/app/answers/list/st/5/kw/sla/page/1/search/1"	**Updated Guidance** Special Leave Accrual (SLA)
"It ismandatorythat members schedule an appointment within 5 working days of arrival. We will provide the BAH 594, PDT arrival worksheet, 1351-2 travel voucher, TLE certification and EFT Form (if applicable) to you during the in-processing brief.
 Please bring the following:
 - 2 Full copies of your orders and amendments (front and back)
 - All required receipts for expenses over $75.00 (Air Fare, Lodging, etc.)
 --Receipts must be itemized, show first and last name, show payment method with at least the last 4 of credit card number.
 - Memorandums for any delays during the PCS 
  - If you are submitting a PPM with your PCS travel voucher please bring DD2278, expense certification form, and all weight tickets
 - If you are submitting TLE with PCS travel voucher please bring lodging receipts
 
 If you would like to have these forms before the briefing you may retrieve them from our CSP home page, policy memos and guidelines, travel pay.
 
 
 If you are a GSU you can retrieve the PDT package off of the CSP home page, Policy Memos and Guidelines, Travel Pay. Complete the form and submit a CSP inquiry with the completed packet and all required supporting documentation.
 
 
 Forms:
 AF Form 594 
 PDT arrival Worksheet 
 1351-2 Travel Voucher 
 TLE certification form
 DD2278 (signed and certified by TMO)
 PPM Certification Form
 EFT (If needed)
 
 
 Links: 
 https://usaf.dps.mil/teams/SAFFMCSP/portal/SitePages/Policymemosguidelines.aspx 
 https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/Docs/perdiem/JTR.pdf
 
 AFIMSC RM Portal"	How to In-Process and Submit Your PCS Voucher
"Please provide a copy of your orders and the completed documentation. If you would like a one-on-one briefing with a Military Pay separation/retirement technician please let us know. Once you get to your final destination you will fill out the 1351-2 and provide it to us for processing. Please send it to our customer service organizational email box. Please ensure you provide any applicable receipts such as air fare. You can find all the forms needed in CSP under Policy memos & Guidelines Military Pay.
 
 
 Forms:
 AF Form 594
 AF Form 1745 Address Change Form
 DD1351-2 final travel voucher
 DFAS-DE-2424
 Direct Deposit Form
 
 
 Links:
 https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/Docs/perdiem/JTR.pdf"	Separations/Retirements Package & Briefing
Please use the attached form to make Work Schedule Changes.	434ARW Form 5 - Work Schedule Change
GTCC reference.	Cardholder Quick Reference Guide
GTCC User Guide	CitiManager Cardholder User Guide
GTCC Regulations as of March 2021	GTCC Regulations
Who can use Appropriated Funds to buy a coin?	Coin Purchase Authority
Civilian Leave Information	Civilian Leave
Documents for new reservists to complete.	New Comers Finance Packet
This Matrix will provide guidance to include on your Inquiry Detail for different items. It will be updated with additional items as we see trends in what is being asked.	Inquiry Detail Matrix
Use this form to request movement of funds within your group or request funds from the Wing.	RPA Budget Load Request
"From the DFAS link below: The DFAS Civilian Pay Debt Payment 8522 form is intended for use by federal civilian employees to make payments on their Civilian Pay Debt amount due. This form cannot be utilized until after receipt of notification from the employee’s servicing payroll office indicating the amount due. Specific information from the notification letter (debt unique identification number) is required to complete the form. Payment can be made online using checking and saving (ACH) account information, bank branded debit card, or PayPal (linked to checking and saving account only -ACH).
 Forms:
 
 Links:
 https://www.pay.gov/public/form/start/68842322
 https://www.dfas.mil/CivilianEmployees/debt/overpaymentofwages/"	Debt from AFIMSC, I Want to Pay this from my Military Pay
"Civilian In-processing is done through HR. Currently they are given an appointment time to in-process in due to COVID. If they lift those restrictions then they will meet in a predetermined location and go through a briefing. In processing procedures can vary from installation to installation. Employees servicing HR office will provide guidance and checklist for base-level in-processing. The gaining unit should provide unit-level in-processing guidance and checklist(s).
 
 
 
 During the in-processing, we are present for a short Civilian Payroll briefing and we collect the Direct Deposit and W-4 forms from the employees. They are instructed to print those forms and bring them to the appointment.
 
 
 Forms: 
 W4
 Direct Deposit 
  
 
 Links:
 
 Links for Direct Deposit and W-4 are provided by HR in the On-boarding letter that the employee will receive"	Steps to in-process at the base as a newcomer
"No one is exempt from Jury Duty. Civilians are entitled to paid time off without charge to leave for service as a juror or witness. They MUST provide a letter of attendance when they return to duty. This letter is sent to Civilian Payroll to clear the outstanding leave report.
 
 
 Forms:
  
 Links:
 https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/FMFC/SitePages/Civilian%20Pay.aspx
 https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/pay-leave/leave-administration/fact-sheets/court-leave/#:~:text=An%20employee%20is%20entitled%20to,as%20a%20juror%20or%20witness.&text=An%20employee%20who%20is%20summoned%20as%20a%20witness%20in%20an,official%20duty%2C%20not%20court%20leave"	Am I Exempt from Jury Duty?
"OPM Form 71 Leave OR automated leave request in time & attendance system such as ATAAPS- approving authority for advance annual leave is signed by the Supervisor. 
 
 
 
 For advance sick leave, the maximum number of hours an employee is eligible for is 240 hours. Unless ASL is being requested to provide care for a family member or for bereavement purposes, then the amount of ASL that can be granted is 104 hours per leave year. The OPM 71 approving authority for advance sick leave is the Supervisor. The signed OPM 71 + Supporting Documentation (including latest LES & medical documentation(s) and etc.) routes through the Civilian Personnel Office for CPO to Audit/review and approve. Once approved – CPO sends endorsement to the Comptroller’s Office to load the approved sick leave hours in the employee’s profile for usage on their time card. 
 
 
 
 
 Information pertaining to Advance Sick Leave: (https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/pay-leave/leave-administration/fact-sheets/advanced-sick-leave/) or DoDI 1400.25v630_AFI 36-815, Leave, (https://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/af_a1/publication/dodi1400.25v630_afi36-815/dodi1400.25.v630_afi36-815.pdf)
 
 
 
 Forms:
  
 Links: 
 AFI36-815
 OPMFact Sheet @ opm.gov"	Request Advance Leave
"DD577 section 4 signed for termination by Commander and certifier.
 Per the DAF Civilian Pay Business Rules - CSR is required to maintain termination 577 for 10 years on file AFTER the termination date…FAMs was brought on board in 2020 to use to create/house/maintain retention 577s within the system/database. 
 Action in ATAAPS
 to remove or revoke a certifier’s access in ATAAPS;
 
 
 if the member is staying on as a current employee – the action would be for the CSR to remove terminated Certifier from all their assigned Rosters – then remove the “certification” role in ATAAPs system authorization in the Main Menu Database Administrative Module.
 
 
 If employee is separating from the DAF (due to resigning, retiring, relocating, or transferring to another agency), follow the same steps as above AND close the employee profile in the Personnel Management Page in FAMS.
 
 Forms: 
 
 
 Links:
 AF Civ Pay Business Rules"	Remove Someone From The Certifier Role
"You can check your annual leave by looking at your Leave and Earning Statement (LES) in MyPay (BEST OPTION), MyBiZ, and in ATAAPS leave request summary view leave link. 
 
 
 Forms:
 LES
 
 
 Links:
 https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/pay-leave/leave-administration/fact-sheets/annual-leave/
 https://mypay.dfas.mil/#/
 https://af.ataaps.csd.disa.mil/https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/"	Check Annual Leave Balance
"Common causes of losing annual leave is not using your use/lose. Ensure you keep an eye on your use/lose on your Leave and Earning Statement (LES).
 
 ""Use or lose"" annual leave is the amount of annual leave that is in excess of the employee's applicable annual leave ceiling. Any accrued annual leave in excess of the ceiling will be forfeited if not used by the final day of the leave year. Forfeited annual leave may be restored under 5 U.S.C. 6304(d). See your local Civilian Personnel or Civilian Pay Office for procedures of restoration of forfeited leave.
 
 
 Forms:
  
 Links:
 https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/pay-leave/leave-administration/fact-sheets/annual-leave/
 https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/pay-leave/leave-administration/fact-sheets/restoration-of-annual-leave/"	Annual Leave has Disappeared in LES
"Review your Leave and Earning Statement (LES) to validate your leave balance.
 
 Full-Time employees earn: Less than 3 years of service earns 4 hours per pay period, 3 years but less than 15 years earns 6 hours per pay period, 15 or more years earn 8 hours per pay period. 
 
 Part-time employees earn: Less than 3 years of service earns 1 hour for each 20 hours in a pay status, 3 years but less than 15 years earns 1 hour for each 13 hours in pay status, 15 or more years of service earns 1 hour for each 10 hours in a pay status. 
 
 Uncommon tours of duty earn: Less than 3 years of service earn (4 hours) times (average # of hours per biweekly pay period) divided by 80 = biweekly accrual rate, 3 years but less than 15 years earns (6 hours) times (average # of hours per biweekly pay period) divided by 80 = biweekly accrual rate, 15 or more years of services earns (8 hours) times (average # of hours per biweekly pay period) divided by 80 = biweekly accrual rate.
 
 Ensure that you have calculated all leave earned and minus all leave taken. If it still does not match you can put a CSP inquiry for a leave audit.
 
 
 Forms:
  
 Links:
 https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/pay-leave/leave-administration/fact-sheets/annual-leave/"	My Annual Leave Accrual Is Incorrect
"Review your Leave and Earning Statement (LES) to validate your leave balance.
 
 Full Time employees earns 4 hours of sick leave per pay period.
 
 Part-time employees yearn 1 hour for each 20 hours in a pay status.
 
 Uncommon tours of duty(4 hours) times (average # of hours per biweekly pay period) divided by 80 = biweekly accrual rate. Ensure that you have calculated all leave earned and minus all leave taken.
 
 If it still does not match you can put a CSP inquiry for a leave audit.
 
 
 Forms:
  
 Links:
 https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/pay-leave/leave-administration/fact-sheets/sick-leave-general-information/"	My Sick Leave Accrual Is Incorrect
"Full Time employees earns 4 hours of sick leave per pay period. 
 Part-time employees yearn 1 hour for each 20 hours in a pay status.
 Uncommon tours of duty(4 hours) times (average # of hours per biweekly pay period) divided by 80 = biweekly accrual rate. 
 You can check your leave balances by viewing your Leave and Earning Statement (LES) in MyPay. You may also view your leave balance in MyBiz and ATAAPS.
 
 
 Forms:
  
 Links:
 https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/pay-leave/leave-administration/fact-sheets/sick-leave-general-information/
 https://mypay.dfas.mil/#/
 https://af.ataaps.csd.disa.mil/https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/"	How many sick days do you get/how to check leave balance?
"Recommend contacting your tax professional to determine if any adjustments need to be made. You can make changes to your federal and/or state tax withholdings via MyPay. You also can submit your changes to your local Civilian Pay Office.
 
 
 Forms:
 Federal – Form W-4
 Various state tax withholding forms
 
 
 Links:
 https://www.irs.gov/payments/tax-withholding"	Any Adjustments A Member Would Need To Make After Life Event Like Marriage In Regards to Taxes
"In order to confirm whether you are authorized to keep your Jury Duty Service Payment we ask that you read the below DOD FMR guidance on what amounts are/are not subject to collection. For the amounts that are subject to collection you will need to get with your Resource Manager/Advisor to complete the Cash Collection Voucher
 
 
 Subpar. 051607 Jury Duty Service Payment:
 *Employees may not retain fees paid for jury duty service. If an employee performs jury duty service for a state or local court and the employee is paid jury duty fees, the fees must be collected from the employee as provided under subparagraph 051610. Employees who perform jury duty service for the United States or the District of Columbia governments are not paid jury duty fees. See 5 U.S.C. § 5537. 
 *051610. Certificate of Attendance and Collection of Fees Paid
 A. Amounts Subject to Collection
 1. Fees for Jury Duty or Witness Services. Unless otherwise allowable under this section, an employee in a pay status may not retain fees received for jury duty or witness services. The employee must submit any fees received to their employing activity in the form of a money order or personal check.
 2. Certificate of Attendance. A certificate of attendance from the clerk of the court must also be submitted to the employing activity. The certificate of attendance should show the dates of jury duty or witness service and any amount of fees the court paid to the employee. The certificate of attendance should separately identify fees and other allowances or expenses. If the certificate of attendance does not identify allowances separately, then all monies received are considered fees for jury duty or witness services and must be collected.
 3. Employee Waiver or Refusal of Fees. An employee serving on a jury in a state or local court who waives or refuses to accept jury fees is still liable to the U.S. Government for the fees they would have received. Under 5 U.S.C. § 5515, the Federal government is entitled to be reimbursed for any fees available and the employee has no discretion to waive payment of the fees on the government’s behalf. The amount of any waived or refused fees must be collected from the employee as a salary overpayment.
 B. Amounts Not Subject to Collection.
 
 1. Allowances or Reimbursement. The employee may keep reimbursements for expenses received from the court, authority, or party that summoned the employee. Allowances or reimbursement for expenses includes transportation or parking expenses.
 
 2. Fees That Exceed Compensation. An employee may keep fees that exceed the employee’s compensation for the days of service.
 
 Forms:  DD1131
 
 
 
 Links:
 OPM Fact Sheet:
 https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/pay-leave/leave-administration/fact-sheets/court-leave/Bottom of Form
 DoDFMR Vol.8 Ch.5 Leave and Other Absences, Par. 0516 Court Leave and Jury Duty:
 https://comptroller.defense.gov/Portals/45/documents/fmr/Volume_08.pdf"	Am I Allowed To Keep The Money I Received For Performing Jury Duty
"Court Leave (LC) is an authorized paid time off leave that has been authorized for use for Department of Defense (DoD) employees when summoned to serve as a juror/witness on a nonofficial capacity on behalf on any party in connection with any judicial proceedings that the United States, District of Columbia, or a state or local government is a party.
 Who is entitled to Court Leave?
 Jury Duty-an employee who is summoned to serve as a juror in a judicial proceeding is entitled to court leave.
 Witness-an employee who is summoned as a witness in a judicial proceeding in which the Federal, State, or local government is a party is entitled to court leave.
 When Court Leave is not authorized:
 Official Duty-an employee who is summoned as a witness in an official capacity on behalf of the Federal Government is on official duty, not court leave.
 
 IAW DoDFMR Vol. 8. Ch. 5 Leave and Other Absences, Par. 0516 Court Leave and Jury Duty,
 Subpar. 0516103 Requirement:
 An employee who is under summons from a court to serve on a jury should be granted court leave for the service for which an employee is entitled to court leave does not include periods when the employee is excused or discharged by the court, subject to call by the court, for an indefinite period or for a definite period in excess of 1 day. Therefore, an employee may be required to return to duty or be charged annual leave if excused from jury service for 1 day or even a substantial part of a day. However, the employee should not be required to return to work if it will cause a hardship. In a case where a return to work would present a hardship on the employee because of the distance of the court from their residence or place of duty, or in the case of an employee engaged in night work, court leave may be approved.
 
 
 Forms:
 The below form can be used if necessary. For those employees that report their time in ATAAPS can submit a leave request within ATAAPS and select LC-Court leave on their request.- OPM71
 
 
 
 Links:
 OPM Fact Sheet:
 https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/pay-leave/leave-administration/fact-sheets/court-leave/Bottom of Form
 DoDFMR Vol.8 Ch.5 Leave and Other Absences, Par. 0516 Court Leave and Jury Duty:
 https://comptroller.defense.gov/Portals/45/documents/fmr/Volume_08.pdf"	Do I need to take leave for jury duty/is it an approved type of leave?
"If a federal employee has submitted their OPM630 form to request to be part of the Voluntary Leave Transfer Program based on a personal or family medical emergency that has exhausted their available paid leave then they can have fellow federal employees donate annual leave hours to them by submitting the OPM 630A (Within Agency) or 630B (Outside Agency) Request to Donate Annual Leave to Leave Recipient Under the Voluntary Leave Transfer Program. If the recipient requires to stay on the program but is transferring to another federal agency they will need to complete the OPM630C form.
 
 
 Forms: OPM630
 
 OPM630A (within agency) 
 OPM630 (outside agency)
 OPM630C
 
 
 
 Links:
 To gain access to form click link below:
 https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/pay-leave/leave-administration/tabs/leave-forms/
 For additional guidance on the Voluntary Leave Transfer Program click link below:
 https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/pay-leave/leave-administration/fact-sheets/voluntary-leave-transfer-program/"	Can someone donate leave to me? If so, how?
"The following reasons can lead/cause for an employee to not receive pay:
 1. Personnel Action to gain a new hire/transfer employee rejects from the payroll database.
 a. Employee will need to contact their HR Staffer to validate that their gaining action processed successfully
 2. Personnel Action not processed in time for payroll cutoff.
 a. Employee not in payroll system when payroll interface takes place.
 3. New Hire Docs not received to update employee pay record.
 a. Direct Deposit form not provided therefore, a hard copy check is being mailed to employee’s home address or unit’s address.
 4. Employee’s time was not certified by end of pay period in ATAAPS causing for employee’s time not to interface during payroll processing.
 5. Employee’s SSN was built incorrectly in ATAAPS therefore, causing time and attendance to reject and having them listed on the Missing Time Report.
 6. Employee’s profile was built under the incorrect designation type (Graded/Ungraded)
 7. Employee’s work schedule in ATAAPS does not match work schedule in DFAS’ database (DCPS).
 
 
 Forms:
 Employee Time and Attendance Report pulled from the “Reports” link in ATAAPS.
 MFR from commander authorizing Special Pay request (Financial Hardship)
 Manual Time Card
 
 Links:"	I Did Not Get Paid Last Pay Period
"Air Force federal employees unlike other federal employees from other agencies will need to submit a request via CSP to request a status on their RITA voucher. All other agencies submit their PCS vouchers directly to DFAS and have the option to check the status at the below link while Air Force PCS vouchers are sent to the processing center at Ellsworth AFB.
 The website for checking the voucher status is here according to DFAS for Army/Marine Corps/Navy/Cost Guard Civilian Employees:https://www.dfas.mil/CivilianEmployees/Civilian-Permanent-Change-of-Station-PCS/-Check-Voucher-Status/
 
 
 Forms:
  RITA Package
 
 
 
 Links:
 RM Portal link: https://usaf.dps.mil/teams/RMSO/rmportal/rmf/SitePages/Home.aspx 
 - Click appropriate radio button: Travel Pay Ellsworth
 - On the left click on the folder labeled, Travel Pay Ellsworth Standard Forms, Checklist, Checklists Civ PDT with DoDID"	How To Check The Status Of The Rita Voucher
"The accumulation of non-pay status hours during a leave year can affect the accrual of annual leave and sick leave. (See 5 CFR 630.208(a).) For example, when a full-time employee with an 80-hour biweekly tour of duty accumulates a total of 80 hours of non-pay status from the beginning of the leave year (either in one pay period, or over the course of several pay periods), the employee will not earn annual and sick leave in the pay period in which that 80-hour accumulation is reached. If the employee again accumulates 80 hours of non-pay status, he or she will again not earn leave in the pay period in which that new 80-hour total is reached. (This means that a full-time employee who is in the 6-hour annual leave accrual category and who has accumulated 80 hours of non-pay status in the last pay period of the year will forfeit 10 hours of leave accrual in that pay period.) At the end of the leave year, any accumulation of non-pay status hours of less than 80 hours is zeroed out so that the accumulation for the next leave year starts at zero. For part-time employees, leave accrual is prorated based on hours in a pay status in each pay period; thus, time in non-pay status reduces leave accrual in each pay period containing such time (5 CFR 630.303 and 5 U.S.C. 6307).
 i.e.
 PP 3
 Employee Reports:
 RG-40 hours
 KA-40 hours
 Leave accrual is not affected
 
 PP 4
 Employee Reports:
 RG 35 hours
 KA-45 hours
 
 *Note: LWOP balance is now at 85 hours YTD. This means employee has gone over his first 80 hour increment of LWOP therefore, their leave accrual for annual and sick leave on this pay period will be forfeited. If employee continues to increase and go over 80 hour increments of LWOP for the remainder of the year they will forfeit their accrual for the pay period that they exceed such increment.
 
 Forms:
  
 Links:
 https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/pay-leave/leave-administration/fact-sheets/effect-of-extended-leave-without-pay-lwop-or-other-nonpay-status-on-federal-benefits-and-programs"	I Have Not Accrued any Ordinary or Sick Leave
"AF Authorized Codes for Leave are in the AFI 36-815 and the DAF Civ Pay Business Rules. Additionally they are listed on the Help Menu in ATAAPs – AF employees must adhere to the codes available for AF use (AFI 36-815) – ATAAPs is built housing all codes, some of which are not supported by AF and some codes are system codes, only used by DFAS. 
 
 
 Forms:
 
 
 Links:
 https://af.ataaps.csd.disa.mil/ataaps_AF2/help/miscellaneous/miscellaneous_codes/LeaveHoursPaid.html?tocpath=Miscellaneous%7CEmployee%20Codes%7C_____8"	Authorized Codes for Leave
"In order to become an APC for your organization, you must create an inquiry under the travel pay category and the ""GTC - Requests for APC Access"" subcategory. In your inquiry, we will need the following:
 
 
 1. An updated GTC APC appointment letter signed by the commander that includes all assigned APCs.
 
 
 2. Training certificates for the following courses (valid in the last three years if previously completed)
 · Programs & Policies – Travel Card Program (Travel 101)
 · Programs & Policies – Travel Card Program Management (APC Course)
 
 The training and/or certificates (if previously completed) are located inhttps://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/Passport/.
 
 When you send your certificates, we will also need the following information to build your account:
 
 First Name
 Last Name
 Unit
 Unit Address (Official)
 Office Zip Code
 Commercial Phone #
 DSN Phone #
 Work E-mail
 Civilian E-Mail
 DEROS
 
 
 Once we receive your training certificates, we will build your APC account. You will receive follow-on instructions to register your account."	How to Obtain APC (Agency Program Coordinator) Access
"For general Mission Critical requests please contact your unit’s GTC APC to have your account placed into “Mission Critical” status. Most units have certain requirements that dictate when you can be placed into this status and some are on a case-by-case basis. APCs will ensure that MC status is used when cardholders cannot file timely vouchers or utilize the Scheduled Partial Payments feature within DTS.
 
 Mission critical status should not be used as a means of avoiding delinquency for the cardholder due to untimely processing of travel vouchers, but used only in situations that apply for mission critical status.
 
 For suspended accounts, APCs will need to complete the Air Force Government Travel Charge Card Mission Critical request for suspended accounts worksheet. This worksheet can be found in the Air Force Government Travel Charge Card SharePoint site in the folder labeled “APC Forms”.
 APCs will ensure the form is completely filled out to include cardholder’s Commander/Director signature on the form, acknowledging that he/she is aware that the cardholder’s account is suspended and cannot be used.
 APCs will forward the completed form to their respective HL3 APC for coordination and review. If the HL3 APC concurs with the request, the request is sent to CPM/HL2 for approval and coordination with the GTCC vendor.
 
 
 Forms:
 July 2020 Mission Critical Request Form for Suspended Accounts
 
 
 Links:
 Requires APC access:"	What to submit to be considered MCC for GTC
"Member will need to complete all the applicable trainings through TRAX and submit an appointment request through the FAMS website (varies base to base, if using FAMS). After the member’s Commander appoints them, the member will need to log back into FAMS to accept the appointment. Afterwards, (varies base to base, whether an additional CSP case be created, or if the FSO automatically grants access) the FSO will assign the applicable roles to the ODTA for their organization.
 
 Applicable trainings:
 1. AO/RO - COL/Training for AOs and COs (Initial required within two weeks of appointment, or Annual Refresher)
 2. DTA – Maintenance Tool: An Overview
 3. DTA – Maintenance Tool: Groups, Organization, People, and Routing Lists
 4. DTA Reports
 5. DTS (Basic) About DTS
 6. DTS (Basic) DTS Travel Documents (DTS 101)
 7. Programs & Policies – TDY Travel Policies 101
 
 Recommended Training in DTMO:
 1 AO/RO – The DTS Approval Process
 
 
 Forms:
 Training certificates will be loaded into FAMS, and FAMS will generate a digital DD577 when requesting and submitting access.
 
 
 Links: 
 For Training Resources in DTMO/TRAX
 
 To submit request through FAMS"	Requesting access for ODTA purposes. What do I need to submit?
"It depends on why the account was closed. Please contact your unit APC regardless of the scenario.
 If the cardholder is eligible for reinstatement (account has been paid in full greater than 60 days or has no NSF within the previous 12 months). The cardholder can initiate reinstatement via online by accessing their CitiManager account or the APC can complete the reinstatement application and send it to Citi’s dodtravelcard@citi.com.
 -If it was closed due non-payment, you will need to contact Citi Bank and determine if it’s eligible for reinstatement and reissuance of a new GTC if necessary. If the balance has been paid in full, but the reinstatement request doesn’t meet the 60 day wait period non-payment closures or 12 month wait period for NSF, a waiver letter is required. APCs will need to complete the paper reinstatement application and attach a waiver letter. A sample of the waiver letter can be found in Government Travel Card SharePoint site in the folder marked “APC Forms”. Note: Before submitting the reinstatement, check and see if the payment has posted.
 -If APC closed it, you will need to contact your unit APC to see if they can get it re-activated.
 -The account could also be closed due to not updating your current address within your Citi Bank profile (i.e. moving from Main St, to Elm St, but not updating your address information with Citi Bank will result in the account being closed).
 
 
 Forms:
 You can apply/request for reinstatement online, or work with your APC to complete a soft copy of the account reinstatement form.
 
 
 Links: 
 
 Citi Website:https://home.cards.citidirect.com/CommercialCard/login 
 
 SAF GTC Website:https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/11098/af-fm-afo/oo-fm-af/af-fm-ph-01/default.aspx"	GTC card was closed out, how to reopen it or get a new one?
"DTS Travel Debt
 A travel-related debt results when one of the following occurs:The trip was cancelled after the traveler received a travel advance.The total previous payments (i.e., travel advances, scheduled partial payments [SPPs], and previous vouchers or local vouchers) exceed the actual reimbursable expenses.A post-payment review (PRR) determines that the paid voucher contains an unauthorized expense that the Government must recover.
 
 
 A travel debt will have to be satisfied and paid back to the government; however a member seeking reimbursement for an unclaimed expense, can still file a claim up until 6 years before it has elapsed. After that, the Line of Accounting has been cancelled and there is no longer any funds available.
 
 
 Forms:
 Varies whether it’s a PCS voucher, or a voucher completed through DTS. Please identify which one to get the correct documents and routing.
 
 
 Links:
 Base’s CSP link
 Or
 DTS
 
 Guide for Managing Travel-Incurred Debt"	If I incur a travel Debt how long do I have to submit a claim for reimbursement?
"Member can be entitled to FSA if they are separated from their immediate family members due to military orders. There are several different variables that will also dictate this. If eligible, your local FMF will use the travel voucher as back-up documentation to pay FSA through DMO.
 
 
 PCS
 Member has to have dependents prior to being stationed at a location where dependents are not allowed to travel with, or not command sponsored. If the member marries after already being stationed at that location, there is no entitlement to FSA. If the dependents still travel with the member at their own expense, and in the local area, the member will not be entitled to FSA. Mil-Mil couples also have to physically reside together prior to being eligible for FSA
 
 
 TDY/Deployment
 Member has to be away from their immediate family members for 30 days or more not within the immediate area of them. If the dependents still travel with the member at their own expense, and in the local area, the member will not be entitled to FSA. Mil-Mil couples also have to physically reside together prior to being eligible for FSA
 https://www.dfas.mil/militarymembers/payentitlements/fsa/
 
 
 Forms:
 DD1561 (FSA Form)
 PCS/TDY Orders
 DD1351-2
 
 Links: 
 Base’s CSP link
 Or
 
 DTS"	How to qualify for FSA and what forms are required to be paid for it?
"HR provides a DCPS Table Update Request to the Finance Civilian Pay team with the necessary information (PAS Code, Org Code, address etc). The finance civilian pay team will then complete the form with all the Employing Activity and Accounting Classification record and send thru Remedy to have DFAS build the table. 
 
 
 Forms:
 
 
 Links:"	New employee that they need to build a pay table for
"Please refer to the below required documents to submit a HHT claim.
 - HHT checklist
 - Direct Deposit FMS Form 2231
 - DD Form 1614 (orders front, back, 3rd page and any amendments)
 - WTA statement worksheet (can be obtained from your local finance office)
 - DD Form 1351-2 (Itinerary should be completed for HHT fixed as well)
 - Applicable receipts/any additional supporting documentation
 
 
 Forms:
 CIV HHT Checklist
 Direct Deposit
 WTA Agreement
 DD1351-2 Travel Voucher
  
 Links: 
 
 AFIMSC RM Portal"	How to submit for HHT. What needs to be included in inquiry?
"This page basically details everything about MEA including what is reimbursable as MEA and what is not.
 
 https://www.dfas.mil/CivilianEmployees/Civilian-Permanent-Change-of-Station-PCS/Civilian-PCS-Entitlement-Guide/Miscellaneous-Expense-Allowance/
 
 Required documents:
 - Direct Deposit FMS Form 2231
 - DD Form 1614 (orders front, back, 3rd page and any amendments)
 - WTA statement worksheet (can be obtained from your local finance office)
 - DD Form 1351-2 (No itinerary is needed if claim is only for MEA separate from travel)
 - MEA Statement
 
 Forms:
 CIV MEA Checklist
 Direct Deposit
 WTA Agreement
 DD1351-1 Travel Voucher
 MEA and Fixed TQSE Statement
 
 
 Links: 
 
 AFIMSC RM Portal"	How to submit reimbursement of MEA?
"https://www.dfas.mil/CivilianEmployees/Civilian-Permanent-Change-of-Station-PCS/Civilian-PCS-Entitlement-Guide/Real-Estate/
 
 
 Forms:
 - Real Estate Expense checklist
 - DD Form 1614 (orders front, back, 3rd page and any amendments)
 - WTA statement worksheet (can be obtained from your local finance office)
 - DD Form 1351-2 claiming Real Estate Expense
 - DD Form 1705 w/appropriate blocks completed and signed (a separate DD Form 1705 has to be completed for Sale and Purchase claims, both claims cannot be done on one form)
 - Memo from approving official authorizing payment (if authorized amount is different than what employee claimed on DD Form 1705)
 - Documentation for Sale/Purchase settlement
 - Transportation agreement
 - Direct Deposit FMS Form 2231
 
 
 Links: 
 
 AFIMSC RM Portal"	How to submit real estate claim
"TQSA is an OCONUS allowance for temporary quarters, it is paid through the civilian pay system and is not filed on a travel voucher. TQSE is the CONUS entitlement, it is filed as a travel claim and can be authorized as lump sum or actual expense. If your orders authorize lump sum, it just needs to be claimed on the DD1351-2. If actual expense is authorized, the DD form 2912 will need to be completed tracking all meal and lodging expenses by day up to the number of days approved in the PCS order. The guide linked below will provide more details and coordination with your local finance office is important to ensure everything is annotated correctly.
 
 
 Forms:
 - Statement for fixed TQSE certifying that temporary quarters were occupied for at least one night at either the old or new PDS
 - DD Form 2912 for actual TQSE. All blocks on both pages must be completed in its entirety. Costs must be actual and not averaged, except for groceries.
 - DD Form 1614 (orders front, back, 3rd page and any amendments)
 - WTA statement worksheet (can be obtained from your local finance office)
 - DD Form 1351-2 claiming TQSE
 - Receipts for any individual meal over $75.00 and all lodging
 - Direct Deposit FMS Form 2231
 
 Links: 
 https://www.dfas.mil/CivilianEmployees/Civilian-Permanent-Change-of-Station-PCS/Civilian-PCS-Entitlement-Guide/Temporary-Quarters-Subsistence-Expenses/
 
 AFIMSC RM Portal"	Difference between TQSA vs. TQSE?
"Unexpired Lease reimbursement is authorized for expenses incurred due to the early termination of a lease agreement. Reimbursable expenses include broker’s fees for obtaining a sublease, charges for advertising, and lease termination fees.
 Information can be found at the link below.
 
 
 Forms:
 - A copy of the lease specifying penalties or other costs payable if occupancy is terminated before the lease expiration date.
 - A statement of the extent of bona fide attempts made to avoid penalty costs if the lease includes a savings provision for subleasing or making other arrangements to avoid penalty costs.
 -An itemization of expenses and necessary explanations for clarification of penalty costs and paid receipts for each expense item.
 - DD Form 1614 (orders front, back, 3rd page and any amendments)
 - WTA statement worksheet (can be obtained from your local finance office)
 - DD Form 1351-2 claiming Unexpired lease
 - Receipts for any individual meal over $75.00 and all lodging
 - Direct Deposit FMS Form 2231
 
 
 Links: 
 https://www.dfas.mil/CivilianEmployees/Civilian-Permanent-Change-of-Station-PCS/Civilian-PCS-Entitlement-Guide/Unexpired-Lease-UEL/
 
 AFIMSC RM Portal"	Unexpired lease and will pay fees if it is broken, how do I get reimbursed for this?
"You can go to Defense Travel Management Office (DTMO) to find out everything you need about per diem. DTMO has the most current per diem rates and FAQs. You can also go to the Joint Travel Regulations (JTR), Chapter 2 via DTMO to find out if you are authorized per diem, review different types of per diem, and how long per diem is authorized. There are too many scenarios to list in content.
 
 Forms:
 
 
 Links: 
 Per Diem Rates (dod.mil)
 Joint Travel Regulations (dod.mil)
 
 AFIMSC RM Portal"	Check what your per diem is and how long it lasts?
"See your unit Organizational Defense Travel Administrator (ODTA) to help you gain access to DTS. If you are trying to get permissions as an ODTA, AO, RO, or FDTA you will require to be appointed on a DD577 and complete mandatory training. You can log onto Defense Travel Management Office (DTMO) to view role description and links to the required training. Your base Lead Defense Travel Administrator (LDTA) will provide you the most current DD577 template and instructions on what is needed to gain permissions for ODTA, AO, RO or FDTA. 
 
 
 Forms:
 DD577
 
 
 Links: 
 User Roles (dod.mil)
 DTS.pdf (dod.mil)
 DoD DTS Best Practices"	DTS - Access Request
"If you are trying to get permissions as an ODTA, AO, RO, or FDTA you will require to be appointed on a DD577 and complete mandatory training. You can log onto Defense Travel Management Office (DTMO) to view role description and links to the required training. Your base Lead Defense Travel Administrator (LDTA) will provide you the most current DD577 template and instructions on what is needed to gain permissions for ODTA, AO, RO or FDTA. 
 
 
 Forms:
 DD577
 
 
 Links: 
 User Roles (dod.mil)
 DTS.pdf (dod.mil)
 DoD DTS Best Practices"	DTS – Elevated Permission Request (577/Training Certificates)
"Emergency Leave should be approved in Leave Web. AFI 36-3003 can be reviewed to determine what leave is authorized under an emergency. The Joint Travel Regulations (JTR), Chapter 3 and 4 explains what is authorized for emergency leave. You can log into the Defense Travel Management Office (DTMO) to retrieve the JTR and more information regarding emergency leave. Your unit ODTA can help you with emergency leave questions. 
 
 
 Forms:
 AF 988
 
 
 Links: 
 afi36-3003.pdf
 Joint Travel Regulations (dod.mil)"	DTS – Emergency Leave
"PCS vouchers are done manually and sent to Travel pay Processing Ellsworth (TPP-E) for processing. During the in-processing brief a travel technician will help you filling out all the required documents. Please ensure you are aware of all expense you have incurred during the PCS travel. Once the voucher is paid you will receive a payment summary from TPP-E. If you feel that you are missing reimbursements/entitlements contact CPTS/FMF right away. If expenses/reimbursements were missed or not paid out a travel technician will work with you to submit a supplemental voucher. NOTE: Only authorized expenses will be reimbursed. Joint Travel Regulations (JTR), Chapter 5 can be reviewed for PCS allowances.
 
 
 Forms:
 1351-2
 1351
 Orders
 
 
 Links: 
 JTR.pdf (dod.mil)
 
 AFIMSC RM Portal"	I just PCS’d and filed my voucher, but I still have a debt
"You can identify a debt in a DTS voucher by selecting Financial Summary from the Progress Bar. On the Review Financial Summary screen, look at the Net to Traveler and the Balance Due US lines located in the Credit Summary section. If you see $0 dollars coming to you and any amount other than zero in the Balance Due US line then you owe money back to the government.
 Most DoD personnel have 30 days from the date of the Debt Notification email to make a payment, request payroll deduction, or submit a waiver request. If you take none of these actions within 30 days, the Debt Management Monitor (DMM) will automatically begin payroll deduction. You should contact your DMM as soon as possible to declare your intentions.
 Payment options: Pay.gov, mail a check to DFAS, or payroll deductions (processed by base DMM)
 
 
 Forms:
 Volunteer Repayment Form (provided by your DMM)
 
 
 Links: 
 Pay.gov - Home
 
 Defense Finance and Accounting Service > debtandclaims > paymydebt (dfas.mil)"	I did not receive a DTS debt notification, but I need to repay it. How can I see my debt amount and begin repayment?
"Debts due to overpayment of wages generally occur for two reasons:
 1. A prior pay period timecard correction was made. For example, if you worked fewer hours than originally reported and paid, your timesheet or timecard would be updated after your original one was processed to reflect the actual hours worked.
 2. 
 
 A correction was made to a previous Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50). For example, if you were given your Within Grade Increase (WGI)/Step Increase or a promotion earlier than you should have been, an updated or corrected SF-50 would be processed to correct the original error.
 Please see the below link for more specific information and on how you can repay the debt if it is over $50.00
 
 
 Forms:
  
 Links: 
 https://www.dfas.mil/CivilianEmployees/debt/overpaymentofwages/"	Civilian Employee Overpayment of Wages
See attached for step by step guide to assist in filing your PCS Package on eFinance!	JBA eFinance Guide for PCS In-Processing
"CED orders start with your installation IPR Office. IPR will send the CED orders over to CPTS/FMA office to validate line of account (LOA) and to certify the orders. FMA will then send the orders over to CPTS/FMF and the LDTA will create the authorization. Once the authorization is created it will then go back to FMA for approval.
 
 
 Forms:
 CED Orders c
 
 
 Links: 
 DTS CED Process (Deployment) Process Document"	DTS - CED Order Approval
Use the attached AF 594 to update your BAH dependency status. Any other form is obsolete and will not be used.	AF Form 594 (BAH Update)
"To out process for PCS, please upload a copy of your orders and in the subject line or body of your inquiry provide the date you plan to depart the local area.
 
 
 460 CPTS cannot out process members until they are within 30 days of the projected departure date.
 
 
 If you are within 30 days of leaving and 460 CPTS has had your orders and departure date for 5 days, but you have not been signed out on the vOP checklist please contact 460 CPTS during customer service hours M-Th 0900 to1500.
 
 
 Phone: 720-847-6416
 Walk-ins: Bldg 1030 Rm 240"	PCS Out Processing
"Travelers should keep track of all expenses on GTC. If there is an unexpected charge, the traveler must call the bank first then the vendor to dispute if it is not accurate. Card holder should contact unit’s APC/GTC manager and keep them up-to-date. The traveler is responsible for all charges.
 Forms:
 None
 Links:
 
 https://home.cards.citidirect.com/CommercialCard/login"	What to do if there is an unexpected balance/charge on GTC card?
"A traveler must first submit an authorization in DTS which will then be approved by an AO. After the trip, the traveler will create a voucher in DTS from the Authorization. Must include all receipts for all expenses over $75.
 Forms:
 Each squadron/unit will have their own request forms to be filled out prior to trip
 Links:
 https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/site/training.cfm"	Submit DTS – TDY Voucher
"TDY’s that exceed 45 days, traveler can set up Scheduled Partial Payments, for reimbursements for airfare, lodging, and any other reimbursable for that period of time. Authorization will be amended to set up the partial payments and AO will approve to start the payments. 
 Forms:
 Links:
 See attachment for step by step guide
 DTS Business Rulesv4 - 9.4"	DTS – Partial Payments
"Table Build Process
 
 
 
 
 The purpose of this Knowledge Article is to assist in the proper process of building DCPS Position Organizations to include DCPDS Position Organization addresses (POAs/Table 30s) to guide you in proper establishment of these POAs/Table 30's prior to submission of the RPAs being processed by AFPC.
 This process is initiated at the unit level through the HR Liaison using the attached DCPS Table Update Request Build Form below. When a new PASCODE and OSC’s are needing to be built then the form will require that
 Part A – Part E be completed prior to making its way to the Civilian Pay Liaison Office (CPLO).
 - 
 
 HR Liaison will provide Part A – D
 - 
 Unit Resource Advisor/Resource Manager will provide information for Part E
 
 
 
 
 *** (The Accounting Classification requested in this portion of the form should be the Activity Level Line of Accounting [LOA]) ***
 
 
 
 
 **Note: The Organization and Employee Level LOA will be added by the CPLO CSR. Upon completion of table build by DFAS the CPLO CSR will require the Org LOA excel spreadsheet in order to update the Org LOA in DCPS. The Employee Level LOA will be processed once the Resource Advisor has completed the AF Form 3821 and has submitted to CPLO via the Comptroller Services Portal (CSP) under Category: Civilian Pay Sub-Category: LOA update (AF 3821).
 
 
 Upon completion to the DCPS Table Update Request Build Form the HR Liaison will submit a copy to the Civilian Personnel Office (CPO) for proper build of the Table 30 in DCPDS. CPO will then process the request to ensure that the Table 30 is processed and made available in DCPDS. The form will then be returned to the HR Liaison to initiate the process with CPLO via submission in CSP.
 
 
  The HR Liaison will create in inquiry under Category: Civilian Pay Sub-Category: Timekeeper – DFAS Table Build and attach the form to the inquiry.
 
 
 
 The CPLO office will assign the CSP inquiry to a CSR for proper review and completion of Part F. The form will then be submitted to DFAS via Remedy Ticket for proper processing through DCPS. The table build request has a 10 business day turnaround for completion.
 
 
 
 To better assist please see the DCPS NON-SLOA Table Update Request and for guidance on how to fill please open the Tables Overview from DFAS."	Table 30 Builds
Fill out the AGR Out-Processing package and submit with your inquiry.	AGR Out-Processing
ATAAPS removal form for employees leaving the 446AW.	ATAAPS removal form.
"In order to update your BAH please complete the attached 594 and follow the ""How-to"" instructions.
 
 
 You must download the 594 to your desktop and open it from the desktop. Along with the 594 please attach the applicable back up documentation such as: dorm termination letter, marriage certificate, divorce decree, parenting agreement, youngest child's birth certificate etc."	Updating BAH
JKO Training Instructions	JKO Training Instructions
"This form is required when you end every set of orders to indicate what you would like to do with your earned leave. You can either carry forward or sell your leave for a cash settlement. 
 
 In the IV. MPS Verification Section, you will want to put your last set of orders date and orders number in the blank section. You can enter the number of days you want to carry forward or sell. If you want ALL of your days, you can write ALL. Also be sure to initial on the appropriate ""Initial"" line. 
 
 
 Digital signatures are enabled in this document, however you will have to download the link and use Adobe, not the web browser."	AF Form 1089 - Leave Settlement Option
"This memorandum is used by a member who would like to carry forward leave from a previous set of orders. This is a request by the member to their Gaining Commander for approval to use their leave. Both the member and the Commander need to sign this form. Once signed, return the memo to the Finance Office. 
 
 
 Digital signatures are enabled in this document, however you will have to download the link and use Adobe, not the web browser."	Authorization to Use Carryover Leave
"Part 1 is submitted to receive your Leave Authorization Number. It is required for the member and supervisor to sign this form. The required blocks are 1, 3-6, 8-9, 11-25 
 
 Part 2 is the members copy 
 
 
 Part 3 is submitted upon returning from you leave. It is required for the member and the supervisor to sign this form. The required blocks are 1, 3-6, 8-20. As well as Section III A-E."	AF Form 988 - Leave Request/Authorization
"RD Lodging 
 Please upload all 3 required documentation
 OF 1164: itemized and signed
 Receipt: $0 balance and correct name on receipt
 Proof of status: drill roster/105s from AROWS: must have all 3 signatures"	Lodging OF 1164
If you are struggling to understand what your LES is telling you or what each sections mean, this will breakdown every section so you know what is going on with your pay.	Understand Your LES
"We are transitioning to a digital form for members who are separating/retiring. Please see attached packet and return it to us as soon as possible. Once we are done reviewing it, we will sign you off in vMPF and authorize your leave request (make sure your leave is on approved status). This will serve as your SEPARATION/RETIREMENT BRIEF.
 
 Please do note of the following:
 1. Please upload a copy of your separation/retirement order.
 2. Please do not put your skillbridge dates on Permissive (Block 8), it is not part of our checklist.
 3. Please make sure your terminal and permissive leave are approved by your Commander.
 4. For Terminal leave. Last Day and Return Date should be the same date.
 If you are separating, use the date from block 13 but if you are retiring, it should be the date effective date not the retirement effective date.
 5. Do not fill out the travel voucher yet. This is done after you have relocated.
 6. If you can't fill out the AF 594 inside the packet, please go to Edit and ""Add Text"".
 7. Please don't forget to sign the Memo on the last page of the packet. ***PLEASE READ MEMO FOR MORE INFORMATION***"	HURLBURT FIELD - RETIREMENT/SEPARATION PACKET
https://www.dfas.mil/Portals/98/dd1561.pdf	DD1561-Family Separation Form
"If you’re able to update your CSP profile to your new unit, your inquiries and documents should route to your new FSO. If you are still having issues contacting the FSO, your CSS may have a contact route for you, either an org box or a phone number. Also, I have the FSO lookup link attached that has some org boxes for supporting FSO offices.
 
 
 Forms: N/A
 
 
 Links: Base’s CSP Link"	No servicing AF Finance where I am, how do I get entitlements processed?
"Annual Clothing allowances are automatically started for enlisted when you go through BMT. These are paid out on your anniversary date.
 Officers do not receive annual clothing allowance but can receive a one-time up-front payment for $400
 There’s also additional Clothing allowance types for AFSC and jobs specific types.
 Civilian Clothing Allowance can be authorized for TDY’s when Command Authority deems it necessary, although Officers are only entitled to it if the member’s PDS is OCONUS prior to the TDY.
 
 
 Forms:
 MFR from CC
 AF1969 (Officer Initial clothing Allowance)
 https://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/af_a1/form/af1969/af1969.pdf
 DD1610/CED Orders
 
 
 
 Links:Base’s CSP link"	How to process clothing allowance
"After terminating the dorms, the Unaccompanied Housing office forwards over the termination MFR. Upon receipt, the local FSO will update the member’s record within next paycheck (depending on when we receive the MFR and our system’s cut-off dates, these entitlements may roll into the following paycheck). Once it’s updated, you will be paid back to the day you terminated the dorms.
 
 
 Forms:
 MFR from UHO
 
 
 Links:
 
 Base’s CSP link"	How long does it take BAS/BAH to process after filing?
"You can file a remission by replying back to the Financial Services Office (FSO) that emailed you regarding the debt. Afterwards they will respond back with their procedures and the forms required to complete the remission package.
 
 
 Forms:
 DD2789 (Waiver/remission of indebtedness application)
 https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/forms/dd/dd2789.pdf
 AF IMT 2451 (Financial Statement) Has to accompany Financial Hardship remission package.
 
 https://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/saf_fm/form/af2451/af2451_rev.pdf
 
 
 Links:Base’s CSP Link"	How to file remission
"PCS Arrival Debt can be relating to any entitlements that are affected when you PCS from one location to another. This can be from PCS’ing from OCONUS to CONUS or vice-versa, and most notably going from a higher paid location to a lower paid location. You can get an idea by seeing which entitlement is different than normal, and inquiring with the FSO on what it’s from.
 
 
 Forms:
 n/a
 
 
 Links:
 https://mypay.dfas.mil/#/
 Base’s CSP link"	PCS Arrival Debt, What does this mean?
"Please submit your orders and a travel technician will provide you with the required documentation that will be filled out during the in-processing briefing. Please ensure you have applicable receipts such as air fare and temporary lodging receipts. Also, all forms can be located within CSP under Policy Memos & Guidelines under Travel.
 
 
 Forms:
 PDT Arrival Worksheet
 1351-2 Travel Voucher
 Temporary Lodging Expense (TLE) Sheet
 Orders
 
 
 Links:
 https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/Docs/perdiem/JTR.pdf"	PCS In-Processing Instructions
"This form is intended for members that require a base pay advance during a PCS. We also require a copy of your PCS orders to process the advance on your pay record. 
 dd2560 Adv Pay form.pdf
 
 
 Forms:
  
 Links:"	Advance Payment Form
"Finance offices cannot update administrative data within your pay record, please contact your local personnel Squadron (FSS) to verify your rank has been updated properly. Once they have updated your rank it will automatically flow into your pay record and you can reach out to your local finance office or open a Comptroller Services Portal inquiry to verify that it has processed into you pay record. Any pay you are due from your date of rank will be computed and paid to you in the next available pay check, once the update has been processed.
 
 
 Forms:
 N/A
 
 
 Links:
 N/A"	Pay has not been updated after change in Rank
"CONUS COLA is a taxable supplemental allowance designed to help offset higher prices in the highest cost locations in CONUS that exceed the costs in an average CONUS location by 8 percent or more. The program affects approximately 6,000 Service members in 21 Military Housing Areas (MHAs) and 20 other counties in CONUS.
 Qualification for CONUS COLA is based on geographic duty location, i.e., the zip code of duty station.
 Payment of CONUS COLA is based on Spendable Income (SI) by grade, years of service and being with or without dependents. SI is based on non-housing expenses, adjusted for the taxes paid on CONUS COLA.
 The Overseas Cost of Living Allowance (COLA) is a non-taxable allowance designed to offset the higher overseas prices of non-housing goods and services. It affects approximately 600 locations overseas, including Alaska and Hawaii.
 Location specific data determines Overseas COLA and directly influence the COLA payments Service members receive. Rank, years of service and number of dependents determine the COLA payment.
 If the cost of living in an overseas area is the same as, or lower than it is in an average CONUS, you will not receive COLA.
 
 
 Forms:
 Fact Sheet COLA
 CONUS COLA locations
 
 
 
 Links:
 CONUS COLA: https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/site/conus.cfm
 
 OCONUS COLA: https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/site/faqcola.cfm"	Why am I not receiving COLA?
"Verify with the local Military Personnel Flight to validate that personnel transaction from reserve to active duty was processed and there were no rejects. If processed, finance can create a CMS case to DFAS explaining the situation and request corrective action(s). On a case-by-case basis a manually computed partial payment can be made to the member in financial hardship.
 
 
 Forms:
 Orders
 
 
 Links:
 N/A"	I have not been paid since my status changed from Reservist to Active Duty. What do I need to do?
"Contact your local finance office to validate that the bonus is in your military pay record. If it is in the military pay record, depending on what type of bonus it is, it will require document validation before the bonus can be released. If it is not in the military pay system you will need to contact your servicing FSS to validate transaction was submitted and not rejected. 
 
 
 Forms:
 Various
 
 
 Links:
 N/A"	Bonus is not showing up on LES
"Buy back military time. Work with personnel to fill out paperwork. 
 
 
 Forms:
 Military Deposit Worksheet OPM Form 1514
 Military Service Deposit Election OPM Form 1515
 SF1150
 
 
 Links:
 https://wss.apan.org/public/DFASPayroll/Knowledge%20Tree/Military%20Service%20Deposits.aspx[KKAGUAS1] 
 
 
 
 [KKAGUAS1]Validated this link"	How to payback military time, how to check the status of changing the $/day payback amount
"How to Submit a Completed RTS Voucher: All docs must be in ONE PDF not PortfolioA complete set of your orders, including mods, must be provided certified orders are required for final/supplemental vouchersAll pages of the DD Form 1351-2/1351-2C must be includedAll receipts as requiredAny approved leave taken during long tours (orders 31 days or over); at minimum, leave must be accounted for in the remarks section
 
 
 
 *Any incomplete vouchers will not be processed
 *Do not send duplicates
 
 
 
 
 RTS Submission Guide
 RTS Examples"	RTS Voucher Submissions & Examples
If a member would like to request a cash settlement of leave or carry forward a leave balance to a current tour, please complete the attached form for processing.	Leave Settlement Form - AF1089
This is a guide to help you understand your Leave and Earnings Statement (LES). The LES is a comprehensive statement of a member's leave and earnings showing your entitlements, deductions, allotments (fields not used for Reserve and National Guard members), leave information, tax withholding information, and Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) information. Your most recent LES can be found 24 hours a day on myPay. Verify and keep your LES each month.	How to read your Reserve and National Guard LES
This is a guide to help you understand your Leave and Earnings Statement (LES). The LES is a comprehensive statement of a member's leave and earnings showing your entitlements, deductions, allotments (fields not used for Reserve and National Guard members), leave information, tax withholding information, and Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) information. Your most recent LES can be found 24 hours a day on myPay. Verify and keep your LES each month.	How to read your active duty LES
"Pre-Travel CTW used to compared travel cost when a traveler requests approval to use a transportation mode other than the one directed by the AO. 
 How to add to DTS
 
 CTW Worksheet"	Constructed Travel Worksheet (CTW)
Use this form to provide instruction for processing your net salary , allotments and other agency-approved payments associated with your employment.	FMS Form 2231 - Direct Deposit
Use this Checklist to ensure you have all the required documents when filing a paper travel voucher for BMT/Tech school or PCS.	Travel Voucher Checklist (BMT/Tech School or PCS) 105th CPTF
"A workbook with job aids for DEAMS Users performing duties such as:Submitting a Requisition (MORD 406, GPC 4009, Form 9, MIPR 448)Journal Vouchers (JVs) / 1081sCanceling a Purchase OrderRe-assigning a RequisitionMiscellaneous Payment Process (MPP)Searching for a Supplier / Vendor Etc. 
 If you are having trouble with any of these, create a ticket and submit it to the Budget or Accounting Technician."	DEAMS Job Aid Index
Use this form to claim travel cost incurred (BMT/ Tech School and PCS)	DD Form 1351-2 Travel Voucher or Subvoucher
"Use the DEAMS Outreach Portal Site to assist with DEAMS functions. They have he following tools to assist DEAMS Users:DEAMS Job Aid IndexFM System TrainingDEAMS Answer BankDEAMS Critical Task ListingMiscellaneous Payment AF Implementation 
 Site Link: https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/10194/sitepages/home.aspx
 
 
 Submit a ticket to the Budget or Accounting Technician to assist with any of these functions."	DEAMS Assistance
"The attached document must be filled out with the below information:Type of Decrease (GPC 4009 or MORD 406)Document Name: Purchase Order being reduced (i.e. MORD Number)Justification: Reason for decrease (i.e. All invoices/bills have been paid, funds no longer required)Amount of DecreaseCurrent Quantity, Revised Amount, and Decrease Amount
 The document must be signed by the Resource Advisor and submitted via a CSP Ticket for the Accounting Technician to take action."	DEAMS De-Obligation Request Form
"The following forms must be filled out and submitted to the Accounting Technician: 
 
 DD Form 2659 Voucher Control Log (Filled out with Check/Money Order Information)DD Form 1131 Cash Collection Voucher (Must have the correct LOA, coordinate with Budget or Accounting)Money Order or Check 
 All documents must be submitted, schedule an appointment or submit via CSP Ticket for assistance and/or processing."	Cash Collection Vouchers (Money Orders or Checks to DFAS)
"The Travel ODL is pulled prior to the RSD and must be worked by FMA Suspense Date. Use the following tools below to work this Report:Travel ODL is saved in the RA Budget Folder: W:\Wing\Shared_Data\RA Budget Info\014 Reports\ODTA\Travel ODL DocumentsWorking the Travel ODL Cheat SheetTravel ODL Slides from TrainingDuring the training I mentioned that ODTAs have the capability of pulling the Travel ODL more frequently using Power BI. Attached is How-To for those that would like to pull and work on it throughout the month.Direct Deposit Form and How-To Correct EFT Returns – Member can update this information themselves in DTS, if they receive an error then they will need to complete the Direct Deposit Form 2231. This form must be routed to the LDTAs Mrs. Panasiuk:michele.panasiuk.1@us.af.mil After the direct deposit information has been updated by the member or the LDTA, the voucher must be re-routed in DTS for approval. Once it has been fully approved and payment has posted this line will come off the Travel ODL Report. 
 Once the Travel ODL has been finalized and all supporting documentation has been saved in the RA Budget Folder, submit a CSP Ticket for Accounting Technician to take appropriate action."	Travel Open Document Listing (ODL)
"As a Resource Advisor, it is your responsibility to assist the Travel ODTAS with the Travel ODL. This report is pulled prior to the RSD and must be worked by FMA Suspense Date. Use the following tools below to work this Report:Travel ODL is saved in the RA Budget Folder: W:\Wing\Shared_Data\RA Budget Info\014 Reports\ODTA\Travel ODL DocumentsWorking the Travel ODL Cheat SheetTravel ODL Slides from TrainingDuring the training I mentioned that ODTAs have the capability of pulling the Travel ODL more frequently using Power BI. Attached is How-To for those that would like to pull and work on it throughout the month.Direct Deposit Form and How-To Correct EFT Returns – Member can update this information themselves in DTS, if they receive an error then they will need to complete the Direct Deposit Form 2231. This form must be routed to the LDTAs Mrs. Panasiuk: michele.panasiuk.1@us.af.mil After the direct deposit information has been updated by the member or the LDTA, the voucher must be re-routed in DTS for approval. Once it has been fully approved and payment has posted this line will come off the Travel ODL Report. 
 Once the Travel ODL has been finalized and all supporting documentation has been saved in the RA Budget Folder, submit a CSP Ticket for Accounting Technician to take appropriate action."	Travel Open Document Listing (ODL)
Fill-out the form for IAD Workday Requests and create a CSP Ticket for Budget to take the appropriate action.	IAD Workday Request Form
Fill-out the form for IST TV Workday Requests and create a CSP Ticket for Budget to take the appropriate action.	ST TV Workday Request Form
Fill-out the attached spreadsheet and create a CSP Ticket for Budget to take the appropriate action.	AW ZA ACC ANG OM Funding Estimate
Fill-out the attached spreadsheet and create a CSP Ticket for Budget to take the appropriate action.	AW ZA AMC ANG OM Funding Estimate
Fill-out the attached spreadsheet and create a CSP Ticket for Budget to take the appropriate action.	School Resources Transfer Request
"The following document reflects most current data elements which includes the following information:OAC / OBANADSNFund CodesRCCCPEC/SAGBLINSObject ClassESP Codes
 If you see data elements missing or need assistance, create a CSP ticket for Budget or Accounting."	105 AW Data Elements
"The following document reflects most current data elements which includes the following information:OAC / OBANADSNFund CodesRCCCPEC/SAGBLINSObject ClassESP Codes
 If you see data elements missing or need assistance, create a CSP ticket for Budget or Accounting."	105 AW Data Elements
ATAAPS trainings are required for specific roles. Please reach out to CSR for further guidance on ATAAPS role requirements.	ATAAPS Trainings (Member, Timekeeper, Certifier)
All new civilian technicians are required to complete the New Technician Gain Packet.	New Technician Gain Packet
User guide for reporting time in ATAAPS.	How to Report Time in ATAAPS
Guide for interpreting your SF50.	How to Read Your SF50
Guide for interpreting your Civilian LES.	How to Read your Civilian LES
"Here is a guide on how you e-certify active orders in AROWS and how to track those orders for pay.
 
 
 Your pay is your responsibility!"	How To E-Certify Active Orders and Track Approval
Electronic Direct Deposit Form	FMS 2231 EFT (Fillable)
Complete this form with specific justification when requesting a credit limit increase.	GTCC CREDIT LIMIT INCREASE FORM
"For all dependency changes, complete and sign an AF594 (Found on AF E-pubs athttps://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/saf_fm/form/af594/af594.pdf ). Guide to completing the AF594 is attached here.
 
 
 
 For marriages, include a copy of your marriage certificate.
 
 
 For divorces, include a copy of your divorce decree that includes the effective date of the divorce. If you will be claiming your child as your dependent, also include their birth certificate, and the portion of the divorce decree that states who has physical custody of the child or how much you will be paying in child support.
 
 
 For the birth of a child, include the child's birth certificate. If the child will not be in your physical custody, also include documentation to show the amount of child support you are paying."	Update BAH Dependency Status (Marriage, Divorce, Birth of a Child, etc)
For military allotments, only full-time AGRs (temps not included) can have allotments. They can be started, stopped, and changed on myPay (https://mypay.dfas.mil/)	Military Allotments
"Submit an AF1969 (https://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/af_a1/form/af1969/af1969.pdf).
 
 
 Initial clothing allowance ($400) - Authorized after commissioning and completing either 90 active duty days, 14 days of active duty for training, or 14 inactive (eg drill) periods.
 
 
 Additional clothing allowance ($200) - Authorized after completing an active tour of more than 90 days in length, when another 90+ day tour has not been completed in the past two years. Technician time counts towards this active tour time, so a technician going on a 91 day military tour would not receive the allowance. The most common time this is paid is when a traditional guardsmen is activated/mobilized to deploy."	Officer Clothing Allowance
"When leaving the AGR program, you must contact the Active Duty Finance Office at this link: 633cpts.sep@us.af.mil
 
 
 You must also have the 192 FSF send your curtailment case to the 192CPTF through CMS."	What do I do when I am leaving the AGR Program
Submit and track your inactive duty training orders for pay.	How To E-Certify Inactive Duty Training Orders
The following form is used to file for Temporary Lodging Expense (TLE). We recommend filling this out once you have completed your temporary lodging stay.	TLE Form
"TO START AND CONTINUE PAY
 
 
 Please submit a pre-certified copy of the 938 with blocks 36a &b, 37-39, first half of block 40, 41-44 completed.
 
 
 
 If travel day was used at the beginning of the order, please make sure it is annotated in block 36.If displaced travel day was used, please indicate the date you traveled in block 36.
 Block 40 report date must match reporting date in block 13.
 
 
 Modifications:
 Please submit modifications once they have been certified in AROWS along with the original order. (Orders should always be
 submitted with all pages and modifications together.) To prevent overpayment, inform us when orders are being cut short.
 
 
 Deployment Entitlements:
 Please ensure we get a stamped copy of CED orders once you reach your location. Submit 1881s when applicable. To prevent
 overpayment, in-process with finance once you return.
 
 
 
 
 Long Tour Info Sheet"	Long Tours (31+ Days) - Start/Mods to continue pay
"Please submit a final certified copy of the orders to Military Pay with blocks 36-44 complete.
 
 Block 36 – please ensure all travel days are accounted for. If travel days were authorized but not used, notify your unit soorder can be modified (this way funds can be released and you won’t be on the unpaid order list)If leave was taken at the end of the tour, indicate the date you traveled home in block 36.Block 40 report and release dates should match blocks 13 and 14 of the order.If applicable, complete mileage statement on page 2 of your orders.Long Tour Info Sheet"	Long Tours (31+ Days) - Final Certification (Tour is Complete)
"Leave must be taken within dates of the order. When leave is taken, please fill out AF 988 and submit to Finance for a leave authorization
 number. 
 
 Part I is for Finance to process,Part II is the member copy for your records,Part III must be submitted to Finance once leave is complete.
 
 
 If there is unused leave at the end of the tour, please complete the AF 1089 to settle. 
 
 
 Long Tour Info Sheet"	Long Tours (31+ Days)- Leave Request
FY21 SDAP Table	FY21 SDAP Table
FY22 SDAP Table	FY22 SDAP Table
106 RQW SDAP Process	106 RQW SDAP Process
https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/934AW/934AWG/FM/Lists/Unpaid%20Orders%20Listing%20UOO/Folder%20View.aspx	UOO Listings
177FW list of PAS CODES	177FW PAS CODES
Please utilize the manual to update profile, initiate and track customer inquiry.	User Manual Customer Role
"**Updated to Include Instructions for DD Form 1351-2**
 
 
 Permanent change of station claims, including travel reimbursement and personally procured moves (PPM, formerly DITY), temporary lodging expense, dislocation allowance, member and dependent travel allowances are paid outside of DTS.
 
 
 ANG travelers going to Basic Military Training (BMT) and Technical Training School (TTS) (split option), file their travel claims outside DTS too.
 
 
 Please use the attached travel voucher and checklist to complete your travel voucher. Fill out every block to the best of your ability; ask questions once you've done as much as you can. Also complete the attached Direct Deposit form, even if you've already completed a gain package. Completing this form legally affirms your selection of banking institution for this travel payment. We will not process your claim without this information."	Travel Vouchers Outside of DTS
"The Government Travel Card (GTC) is used to pay for official travel expenses while members are on active duty orders. To obtain a GTC you will need to complete a Statement of Understanding (DD Form 3120) and earn a certificate of completion for ""Programs & Policies - Travel Card Program (Travel Card 101) [Mandatory]"".
 
 
 Read and check off each item on the DD Form 3120, DoD Government Travel Charge Card (GTCC) Statement of Understanding (SOU). Click on the Applicant/Cardholder signature block and apply your digital signature. Forward the form to your supervisor. The supervisor will add the unit Agency Program Coordinator's (APC) name and phone number, complete the date block, and digitally sign the form. Then your supervisor will provide you with a copy of the completed form. Save the form using the following file name convention: ""SOU Lastname Firstname YYMMDD"" (the date you signed the SOU).
 
 
 Access the DTMO Passport website, https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/neoaccess/login.php . (You may need to register for an account.) Once you have logged into Passport, click on the 'TraX' link to access the required Travel Card Program training. Save the training certificate using the following file name convention: ""Travel Card 101 Lastname Firstname YYMMDD"" (training completion date).
 
 
 When you have a completed Statement of Understanding and a training certificate you may apply for a GTC. Your unit Agency Program Coordinator (APC) will provide you with a passcode and an Inviter's email. (The Inviter's email is usually the APC's email address.) Be very careful to type in the correct email address or your request will not route properly. Refer to the attached slides, especially the Application Process - Applicant Checklist on Slide 15. Here is the URL for the GTC Application: https://home.cards.citidirect.com/CommercialCard/applyforcard . Select the option labeled ""Invitation Passcode"" and click ""Continue"". Now you'll need the passcode and inviter's email. Create a user name and password for your account; then complete all items labeled with an asterisk (""*""). The ""Approver1 Email address"" is your supervisor's email address. (**If your supervisor is also your APC, pick another supervisor in your organization.**) CAUTION: Do not click ""Submit"" on your application until you have uploaded your Statement of Understanding and training certificate. Click on the link ""View Account Documents"", then ""Add Document"" and upload your SOU and training certificate. NOW: click ""Submit"" to route the application to your supervisor.
 
 
 Let your supervisor know you have submitted your GTC application to them. There is little delay, so if they don't have it in their email check your application (by signing into CitiManager) and ensure you entered the correct email address for Approver1.
 
 
 If you and your supervisor are still having trouble, contact the unit APC for further assistance."	New Government Travel Card (GTC) Application
"Special Leave Accrual (SLA) and Use/Lose Leave Balances - Active DutyThe information on this page is intended to help you understand what SLA is and how to interpret your SLA and Use/Lose leave balances on your LES. 
 
 Based on the continuing impact of COVID-19 and service members' ability to take leave during the national emergency, the military services will extend SLA through fiscal year 2021 (FY21). Service members that perform active service (as defined in 10 U.S.C § 701(a)) during FY21 are authorized to accumulate annual leave in excess of 60 days (not to exceed 120 days) as shown on the end of month September 2021 Leave and Earnings Statement. This SLA leave balance may be retained until the end of FY24 (30 September 2024).
 
 Leave earned after 30 September 2021 will not be SLA protected unless earned during an eligible deployment. Leave earned above the SLA protected balance in FY22 and beyond must be used during the fiscal year it was earned or will be lost at the end of that fiscal year. Service members are responsible for tracking and managing their own leave.
 
 Accrued Leave
 Leave accrues to a service member serving on active duty for 30 days or more. It accrues at the rate of 2½ days for each month of active service, excluding periods of absence from duty without leave. For partial months, it accrues at the rate of ½ day for any period of 6 days or less
 
 What is SLA?
 Normally a member may not carry forward a leave balance of more than 60 days into a new fiscal year. SLA is an exception to that rule. Under certain circumstances, like COVID19, members may be authorized to carry forward more than 60 days. For more information regarding rules governing the SLA, please click here and read Section 350202. Key Points from the DoDFMR pertaining to SLAEffective March 11, 2020, through September 30, 2021, service members performing active service are authorized to accumulate annual leave in excess of 60 days not to exceed 120 days as shown on the end of month September 2021 Leave and Earnings Statement. Such members are authorized to retain such unused leave until the end of fiscal year 2024 (September 30, 2024).The maximum amount of SLA leave that may be carried forward is the leave balance at the end of the fiscal year, following the end of the SLA period, not to exceed 120 days. The maximum amount will be reduced to a new level whenever the leave balance drops below the previously set level. If at any time, the leave balance drops to or goes below 60 days, then there is no longer any SLA protected leave.Leave will be accounted for by crediting it sequentially in the chronological order in which it is accrued. Generally, when used, leave will be charged with the most recently accrued leave charged first. This method is known as Last In, First Out.How to determine if you qualify for SLA off of your Leave and Earning Statement (LES)On the bottom in the Remarks Section, if you qualify for SLA regardless of your circumstance, there will be a remark that reads “PROTECTED SPECIAL LEAVE ACCRUAL BALANCE = XX.X Expires DD MMM YYYY”.The Protected Special Leave Accrual is your allowable leave carryover balance.The remark also includes the expiration date of your SLA. Your “Use/Lose” balance field on the LES is now:Any normal leave set to expire September 30, 2022Active Duty Examples: The following examples are for Active Component (AC) service members only. Reserve Component (RC) examples will be available soon.
 
 SLA carry-over maximum balances were established on September 30, 2021. The following examples show how that balance is adjusted over subsequent fiscal years.
 Member does not take leave during following fiscal year, balance in excess of established maximum.Member takes leave, balance remains unchanged.Member takes leave, balance at end of fiscal year below established maximum.Member takes leave balance at end of fiscal year 60 days or less."	Special Leave Accrual
"Family Separation Allowance
 If your dependents cannot live with you at or near your permanent duty station, whether inside or outside the United States, you may be entitled to FSA.
 
 FSA provides compensation for added expenses incurred because of an enforced family separation under one of the following conditions:
 Transportation of dependents is not authorized at government expense, and the dependents do not live in the vicinity of your permanent duty station.Transportation of dependents is authorized at government expense, but you have elected an unaccompanied tour of duty because a dependent cannot accompany you to the permanent station due to certified medical reasons.You are on duty aboard a ship, and the ship is away from the homeport continuously for more than 30 days.You are on temporary duty (TDY) (or temporary additional duty) away from the permanent station continuously for more than 30 days, and your dependents are not residing at or near the TDY station.In addition, you may be entitled to FSA when your dependents are evacuated from a danger area and they temporarily occupy government quarters at a safe haven area. A safe haven location may be anywhere in the world named in the evacuation order, or subsequent modification to that order, to which a dependent is directed to relocate on a temporary basis to await a decision by competent authority to either return to the OCONUS permanent duty station or proceed to a designated place. (Reference DoDFMR Vol. 7A chapter 27)
 FSA is payable at the rate of $250 per month (pro-rated to $8.33 per day for periods less than a month).
 To apply for FSA, you should submit a completed DD Form 1561, Statement to Substantiate Payment of Family Separation Allowance (FSA), to your servicing personnel office."	Family Separation Allowance
"TSP FOR RESERVE/GUARDImportant Notices for Reserve Component TSP:Information on this page applies to Army or Air Force reserve component members and certain Navy reserve component members (those reservists paid on the reserve component system; if you are unsure of which system you are paid on, please see your finance office). For other members, see our TSP for Active Duty page for more information.Basic Pay needed! To participate in TSP, you must have elected a minimum of one percent of your basic pay for either traditional or Roth TSP contribution.You may elect Roth or traditional TSP contributions. Traditional TSP contributions are deducted pre-tax; taxes are deferred until you withdraw your contributions. Roth TSP contributions are taken after-tax. If you elect to contribute to TSP, the contributions will be deducted from your pay account. Further information on TSP as well as election forms may be obtained at www.tsp.gov. You may also find information from your command or installation personal financial counselors, or your finance office.Newlly accessed service members must complete the course. “The Uniformed Services Blended Retirement Systems: YOUR RETIREMENT SYSTEM” within their first 12 months of service. The approved training materials can be found here:TSP address for reserve and guard Army, Navy, Air Force: You may change your Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) address information at any time. You may make your address change through myPay if you are currently contributing to TSP. Your TSP address change will be sent to update your Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board personal account information. You must contact your customer service representative to change your address if you are NOT currently contributing to TSP. Please do not make a TSP address change if you have made one in the last three days.Know the contribution limits: The IRS has annual limits for TSP contributions. Stay up-to-date on the latest from the nation's tax authority. STARTING YOUR TSP CONTRIBUTIONSThe first step in planning participation in TSP is reviewing current pay, bonuses and deductions. This will allow you to determine what percentages of your basic pay, special and incentive pays, and bonuses are available for contribution elections. Remember, traditional and Roth contributions are based on your elections of percentages of pay and not on dollar amounts.
 Traditional TSP contributions are taken before all other deductions. Roth TSP contributions come from pay available AFTER payroll taxes and deductions have been computed. We’ve developed a worksheet to help you determine the amounts of pay eligible for Roth TSP contributions.
 
 WARNING: Electing a contribution percentage that does not allow for existing deductions will cancel the Roth TSP elections and funds will not be deposited in your Roth TSP account. Deductions include payroll taxes (Social Security and Medicare) as well as forfeitures, federal and state income tax withholding, Service Members’ Group Life Insurance (SGLI) and Family Service Members’ Group Life Insurance (FSGLI) premiums, debts, garnishments, bankruptcies, tax levies, alimony, child support and fines. Visit your finance office if you have any questions about deductions from your pay.
 
 Once you have determined the percentages of each pay category to be contributed to your traditional and/or Roth TSP account, myPay is available to start, change or stop traditional and Roth TSP contributions.
 
 If you do not have access to myPay, a completed and signed Thrift Savings Plan Election Form TSP-U-1 must be submitted to your finance office for processing. Forms are available at https://www.tsp.gov/forms/uniformedServicesForms.shtml
 WANT TO CONTRIBUTE FROM A BONUS OR ONE-TIME PAYMENT?
 If you will be receiving bonuses or one-time special or incentive payments, you may wish to contribute all or part of those payments to your TSP account. Like other TSP contributions, elections must be stated in percentages rather than dollar amounts.
 
 Because Roth TSP is taken after all other deductions, you will need to calculate how much money is available to contribute to Roth TSP. Many regular payroll deductions may be found by reviewing your current LES; however, federal and state tax withholding of bonuses or other one-time payments will require a little math.
 
 The federal supplemental rate for withholding is set at 22 percent. State supplemental rates vary state to state. Take a look at your state's current supplemental rates.
 
 Multiply the amount of the gross bonus or one-time payment by the combined federal and state withholding percentages to get an estimate of your tax liability. Add this to your other deductions and subtract from the payment amount. If, for instance, all of your deductions equal 40 percent of your one-time payment, you cannot make an election of more than 60 percent for Roth TSP contributions.CHANGING YOUR TSP ELECTIONSLife, and your financial needs and goals change. Whether you need to reduce your contribution elections to balance your home budget or increase them to meet your future goals, you MUST enter contribution percentages in all pay categories when submitting changes either via myPay or a TSP-U-1. For example, if you are satisfied with most of your current elections, but wish to increase the percentage of basic pay, you must repeat your current elections in each pay category along with the increased percentage for basic pay.
 
 Failure to submit the correct percentage in each pay category will cause your contribution elections for unmarked categories to be recorded as zero percent.
 RESERVE AND GUARD ACTIVATIONArmy and Air Force reservists and Guard members continue to be paid from the same system whether in a drill status or activated for active duty service. Your traditional and Roth elections will continue unaffected by the change in pay status.
 
 For Navy reservists: Pay computation for members who serve on a period of active duty of more than 30 days is transferred to the pay system that supports active duty members. To continue traditional or Roth TSP, new elections must be submitted via myPay or a TSP-U-1 form. form. Following transfer back to the reserve pay system, your previous TSP elections may be restored. See your finance office to verify whether a new election is needed.
 TSP Spillover Beginning with the first pay period of 2021, the TSP switched to a “spillover” method for TSP Catch-Up contributions. This change eliminates the requirement to make a separate TSP Catch-Up election each year. The spillover method streamlines the catch-up contribution process for eligible participants by eliminating the requirement for participants to make an affirmative catch-up election each year. Participants turning 50 or older will no longer need to make a separate catch-up election. Once they reach the Elective Deferral Limit, their regular contributions will automatically start counting toward the IRC 414(v) catch-up contribution limit. More information can be found on the TSP Website."	TSP FOR RESERVE/GUARD
"Secondary Dependency - General information Your personnel or finance office can help get you answers to secondary dependency questions.When you’re ready to submit your initial application or redetermination package, make sure you send it to the correct DFAS office. Make sure you review instructions and required documents for Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps secondary dependency applications.In loco parentis dependents are not entitled to a USIP card.
 There are times when your dependents may include more than your spouse and children. These added dependents can increase your financial responsibilities. If you’re responsible for the financial support of other family members, you may be eligible to add them as your secondary dependents.
 Preparing and submitting applications to have eligible persons included as your secondary dependents can ensure you receive the benefits and allowances you and your dependents are entitled to. These may include:Increased Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH) not to exceed full BAH with dependentsUniformed Services Identification and Privileges CardTravel allowances
 Who can be secondary dependents?
 Secondary (non-primary) dependents can include:Parent, parent-in-law, step-parent, parent by adoption, or any person who stood ‘in-loco parentis’ (in the place of a parent) to you for at least five years prior to your emancipation.Unmarried children ages 21 and 22 who are enrolled in an accredited institution of higher education on a full-time basis.Ward of the court, unmarried, and placed in the permanent legal physical custody of the member, or if not permanent custody for a period of at least 12 consecutive months.Unmarried child over age 21 incapable of self-support because of mental or physical incapacity that occurred while the child was considered a dependent of yours as a member or retired member, or is considered the dependent of a deceased member (while under age 21 or under age 23 and a full-time student).
 To qualify as a secondary dependent, the individual’s income, not including your contribution, must be less than one-half of the actual living expenses. The law requires the individual to be ‘in fact’ dependent on you, the service member. Your contribution must be more than one-half of the dependent’s actual monthly living expenses. Documentation to prove living expenses and your contribution must ALWAYS be provided."	Secondary Dependency - General information
"Servicemember's Group Life Insurance (SGLI)Servicemember's Group Life Insurance (SGLI)
 Servicemember's Group Life Insurance, or SGLI, is a program of low cost group life insurance for service members on active duty, ready reservists, members of the National Guard, members of the Commissioned Corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the Public Health Service, cadets and midshipmen of the four service academies, and members of the Reserve Officer Training Corps. SGLI coverage is available in increments of $50,000 to a maximum of $400,000. SGLI premiums are currently $.065 per $1,000 of insurance, regardless of the member's age. Effective July 1, 2014 premiums will increase to $.07 per $1,000 of insurance. You can plan your coverage by reviewing the SGLI premium rate table.
 Combat SGLI
 The John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364) authorized reimbursement of premium deductions for SGLI for service members who have SGLI coverage, and who serve in the theater of operations for Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF) or Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF). Effective September 1, 2010, OIF was changed to Operation New Dawn (OND) and authorization was provided to continue to pay all entitlements authorized for OIF to service members deployed in support of OND.
 
 What this means to affected service members is that when you deploy for OEF or OND, and you have elected less than the maximum level of SGLI, you may increase your SGLI coverage amount to the maximum $400,000 and your premiums will increase as well (submit SGLV 8286 to your Personnel Office). HOWEVER, although you will see an increase in your premium on your Leave and Earnings Statement, you will also see a credit in an equal amount posted monthly (Air Force, Army, Marine Corps) or bi-monthly (Navy) as reimbursement by your Service. If you do not see the increase in your premiums or the reimbursement from your service on your LES within two months of your deployment, bring it to the attention of your Personnel Office immediately. Read more about your life insurance benefits and download a fillable SGLV 8286 and other forms at the Veterans Administration's website.
 
 Need information on Family Servicemember's Group Life Insurance?RESERVE & GUARD: PREMIUMS WHEN IN DRILL/NO-PAY STATUS
 Reserve and Guard members of the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps drilling for points but in a no-pay status are still required to pay their SGLI premiums."	Servicemember's Group Life Insurance (SGLI)
"Family SGLI (FSGLI)
 Family SGLI (FSGLI) was implemented by the Department of Veterans Affairs in December 2001 to extend insurance coverage to spouses and children of members eligible for SGLI.
 
 In order to be eligible for FSGLI, spouses and children must be registered in the Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System (DEERS). Once registered in DEERS, spouses and children are automatically covered unless the service member declines coverage by filing a SGLV-8286A (Family Coverage Election) form with their personnel office.
 
 With the establishment of the FSGLI program, military members married to other military members are required to register their spouses in DEERS as well. This allows for calculation of FSGLI premiums, as DEERS is the only official source of the spouse’s personal information, such as date of birth.
 
 All family members are automatically covered by FSGLI from their date of eligibility. For families registered in DEERS, the Defense Finance and Accounting Service can calculate premiums and deduct them from the member’s pay. Delay in DEERS registration can delay this deduction and result in a debt for missed premiums.
 
 If you're in a military-to-military marriage, read more on the latest changes in the law that eliminates automatic enrollment for your spouse. FSGLI is still an option, but you'll have to take steps to enroll.
 
 No matter which choice you make, your spouse must be enrolled in DEERS. Take a copy of your marriage certificate to your personnel office to make sure your information is up to date."	Family SGLI (FSGLI)
"Tax Withholding InfoIncome taxes, like military inspections, are an inevitable part of life. We want to help you meet your tax responsibilities without adding more work or worry to your life.First, it's important that you understand that we are not tax experts or advisors. Our job is to provide you with accurate year-end information in the form of W2s or other tax statements you will need to file with federal, state and local tax authorities. We also provide an easy online way to keep your tax withholding information current or retrieve your tax statements via myPay.
 TAX WITHHOLDING
 Portions of your pay are withheld from each paycheck for federal and state income tax purposes based on your specific situation. Are you married? How many dependents do you have? This information is reported to us when you fill out an IRS W4 form and turn it into your finance office or when you use myPay to update your information online. We also use information from your service, such as when you are serving in a Combat Zone Tax Exemption area, as well as tax withholding requirements from the IRS and your state of legal residence to withhold enough to meet anticipated tax liability.
 
 While we try to do the best we can, the accuracy of tax withholding still rests with you. Each individual is different and it's your responsibility to review your income and other financial information, as well as what that information means when it comes tax time. You can adjust your tax withholdings based on that information to make sure enough is withheld each year, or to make sure we are not withholding too much and depriving you of money you may need to support your family or meet other financial obligations.
 
 We encourage all of our pay customers to meet with their tax advisor, on base tax assistance counselors (usually found through your legal services office), or by visiting the IRS website. State tax information may be found on the websites of your state revenue or tax department.
 
 ALERT: Kentucky, New Mexico, Minnesota and Oklahoma instituted new tax guidelines in 2010 exempting certain military pay from state taxes for legal residents. These states join others exempting all or part of military pay for eligible members. Know your state's rules, and make sure your tax withholding is correct.
 ALERT: Arkansas instituted new tax guidelines in 2014 exempting certain military pay from state taxes for legal residents.
 ALERT: Colorado passed legislation that exempts certain types of military pay from state taxes for legal residents; though it only applies to specific circumstances. 
 
 Once you can more accurately estimate your tax liabilities, you can adjust withholding by completing a new W4 and submitting it to your finance office. Even easier, go online to myPay and update your federal and state withholding information"	Tax Withholding Info
The following guides will help you understand your LES.	Leave and Earning Statement
"Hardship Duty Pay (HDP)
 
 
 Hardship duty pay is additional compensation paid to service members assigned to locations where living conditions are substantially below those conditions in the continental U.S. (CONUS).Military Hardship Duty Pay-Location
 HDP-L is compensation paid to members assigned outside the continental United States in Quality of Life (QoL) Hardship locations -- Locations where QoL living conditions are substantially below the standard most members in the continental United States would generally experience. HDP-L is intended to recognize the extraordinary arduous living conditions, excessive physical hardship, and/or unhealthful conditions that exist in a location or assignment. Rates are payable in increments of $50, $100, or $150 a month based on the level of QoL hardship in a given area.SpecificsAll members serving on PCS in a designated area, or serving in a temporary duty or deployed status for over 30 consecutive days in the area will receive HDP-LMembers on permanent reassignment to the area will be eligible from the day of arrivalMembers TDY to the area are not eligible during the first 30 days of consecutive service at the designated location. On the 31st day, HDP-L will be payable retroactive to the date of reportingEntitlement to HDP-L continues through the date of departure on PCS
 For specific conditions of this entitlement, including a list of current and past locations, view the DOD Financial Management Regulation.Military Hardship Duty Pay-Mission
 HDP-M is payable to members both officer and enlisted, for performing designated hardship missions. HDP-M is payable at the full monthly rate during any part of which, the member performs a specified mission. A member assigned to, on temporary duty with or otherwise under the operational control of the Defense Prisoner of War/Missing Personnel Office (DPMO), the Joint Task Force-Full Accounting (JTF-FA), or the Central Identification Lab-Hawaii (CIL-HI) may qualify for HDP-M based on performance of a hardship mission members so assigned are entitled for each month in which they perform investigative or remains recovery in a remote, isolated area (including, but not limited to, areas in Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam and North Korea) for recovery of U.S. service member remains.Military Hardship Duty Pay-Tempo
 The Secretaries of the Military Departments may establish HDP-T programs under the authority of 37 USC 305. A mobilization or deployment tempo that requires the member to perform duties in an operational environment for periods that exceed rotation norms may be designated as hardship duty for the purposes of paying HDP-T. The Military Departments have not yet implemented HDP-T programs."	Hardship Duty Pay (HDP)
"If you're creating your DTS authorization or it was returned, make sure to add comments about:
 
 Your status. Your status determines what money will pay for your trip. This can be AGR, MPA, Technician, AT, and ST. For this purpose, DSG is not a status!Where and when you will be performing duty.Where you will be lodging, if you didn't book through DTS. Include the name, location and nightly rate. 
 
 
 Don't forget to include all your anticipated expenses in the authorization. Common expenses included:Mileage to and from the terminal. This can be two round trips if your spouse drops you off and picks you up.Parking at the terminal. This cannot exceed the cost of a taxi ride!Lodging tax.Fuel for your rental car. 
 If you have any questions, please visit Travel (dps.mil)."	DTS Authorizations and Comments to the Approving Official
Step-by-step guide for creating an authorization in DTS	DTS Guide: Authorizations
"Hostile Fire/Imminent Danger Pay (HFP/IDP)
 
 
 A member of a uniformed service may be paid special pay at the rate of $225 per month for any month in which he/she was entitled to basic pay.
 A member is entitled to IDP when assigned to a designated IDP area. To see which areas are designated as IDP areas, view figure 10-1 in the DOD Financial Management Regulation.
 The commander determines HFP based on whether a member is:Subject to hostile fire or mine explosionsIn an area near hostile fire or mine explosions which endanger the memberKilled, injured, or wounded by hostile fire, mines, or any hostile actionSpecial Situations
 Three special situations affect HFP/IDP. These apply to members who are:Captured or missingHospitalized as a result of hostile actionOtherwise entitled to HFP/IDP but are missing from the area for an entire calendar monthRates Payable
 HFP/IDP is payable at the monthly rate of $225.00. Service members will receive $7.50 for each day they are on duty in an IDP area up to the maximum monthly rate of $225. Members who are exposed to a hostile fire or hostile mine explosion event are eligible to receive non-prorated Hostile Fire Pay (HFP) in the full monthly amount of $225. Members cannot receive both IDP and HFP in the same month."	Hostile Fire/Imminent Danger Pay (HFP/IDP)
"Basic Pay
 
 
 Basic Pay is the fundamental component of military pay. All members receive it and typically it is the largest component of a member's pay. A member's grade (usually the same as rank) and years of service determines the amount of basic pay received."	Basic Pay
"Basic Allowance for Subsistence (BAS)
 
 
 BAS is meant to offset costs for a member's meals. This allowance is based in the historic origins of the military in which the military provided room and board (or rations) as part of a member's pay. This allowance is not intended to offset the costs of meals for family members. Beginning on January 1, 2002, all enlisted members get full BAS, but pay for their meals (including those provided by the government). This is the culmination of the BAS Reform transition period.
 Because BAS is intended to provide meals for the service member, its level is linked to the price of food. Therefore, each year it is adjusted based upon the increase of the price of food as measured by the USDA food cost index. This is why the increase to BAS will not necessarily be the same percentage as that applied to the increase in the pay table, as annual pay raises are linked to the increase of private sector wages.
 2022 BAS Rates:Officers$280.29/monthEnlisted Members$406.98/month
 
 The BAS Table is available on DFAS website:https://www.dfas.mil/MilitaryMembers/payentitlements/Pay-Tables/bas/"	Basic Allowance for Subsistence (BAS)
"Basic Allowance for Housing
 
 
 BAH is an allowance to offset the cost of housing when you do not receive government-provided housing. Your BAH depends upon your location, pay grade and whether you have dependents. BAH rates are set by surveying the cost of rental properties in each geographic location. Therefore, BAH rates in high-cost areas will be much greater than those in low-cost areas. BAH rates are published on the Defense Travel Management Office Web page.https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/site/bah.cfm
 Additionally, there are different types of BAH to compensate for special situations. For more details, choose from below.Different Types of BAH
 
 
 
 There are several types of BAH to satisfy various housing situations that occur among military members. In general, the amount of BAH you receive depends on your location, pay grade, and whether you have dependents. Under most circumstances, you receive BAH for the location where you are assigned, not where you live. Additionally, you may be entitled to some BAH amounts if you are residing separately from your dependents. This occurs in situations involving unaccompanied overseas tours or having a dependent child that resides with a former spouse. The rules regarding these situations can become quite complex. Consult your Finance Office if you are in one of these situations. Each type of BAH is described below.BAH With Dependents and BAH Without Dependents
 A member with permanent duty within the 50 United States, who is not furnished government housing, is eligible for Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH), based on the member's dependency status at the permanent duty ZIP Code. A member stationed overseas, including U.S. protectorates, who is not furnished government housing, is eligible for Overseas Housing Allowance (OHA) based on the member's dependency status. If a member is serving an UNACCOMPANIED overseas tour, the member is eligible for BAH at the ""with dependents"" rate, based on the dependent's US residence ZIP Code, plus OHA at the ""without dependents"" rate, if the member is not furnished government housing overseas.Partial BAH
 A member without dependents who is living in government quarters is entitled to a Partial BAH.BAH Reserve Component/Transit (BAH RC/T)
 BAH RC/T is a non-locality housing allowance for members in particular circumstances, for example, reservists on active duty for 30 or fewer days. It also applies when a member is in transit from selected areas where no prior BAH rate exists (such as overseas). It does not vary by geographic location. BAH RC/T was set based on the old Basic Allowance for Quarters (BAQ), which was based on the national average for housing. BAH RC/T is published annually and is determined by increasing the previous year's rates by the national average percentage growth of housing costs.BAH-Differential (BAH-Diff)
 BAH-Diff is the housing allowance amount for a member who is assigned to single-type quarters and who is authorized a basic allowance for housing solely by reason of the member's payment of child support. A member is not entitled to BAH-Diff if the monthly rate of that child support is less than the BAH-Diff. BAH-Diff is determined by the SECDEF and was equal to the difference between BAQ with dependents and BAQ without dependents in 1997 for the member's grade. BAH-Diff is published annually and is determined by increasing the previous year's rates by the percentage growth of military basic pay. For more information contact your finance office.Additional ResourcesBAH Calculator"	Basic Allowance for Housing
"Clothing Allowance
 
 
 Clothing allowances may be issued to help members pay for their uniforms. There are four main types of clothing allowance:InitialReplacementMaintenanceExtraInitial Clothing Allowance
 Both officers and enlisted members of the U.S. Armed Forces are entitled to an initial clothing allowance. Office , however, are only entitled to the allowance once except in the situation noted below:Upon first reporting for active duty (other than for training) for a period of more than 90 days.Upon completing at least 14 days of active duty or active duty for training as a member of a Reserve ComponentUpon completing 14 periods of inactive-duty training as a member of the Ready Reserve (Each period must be of at least 2 hours duration)Upon reporting for the first period of active duty required of a member of the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. NOTE: Upon transfer to another Reserve Component that requires a different uniform, a Reserve officer may receive another initial uniform allowance. Regular officers may not receive this allowance when transferring to another Military Service.
 This allowance is provided to enlisted members upon initial enlistment or upon special qualification.Cash Clothing Replacement Allowance
 This allowance is payable only to enlisted members annually following initial clothing allowance on the anniversary month. This is for the replacement of uniforms based on normal wear and tear.Extra Clothing Allowance
 Extra Clothing Allowance are additional to the other two and do not affect them. These allowances are for situations in which a member may need additional uniforms or is required to have civilian clothing to perform his/her duties. Civilian Clothing Allowance Type of DutyInitial Replacement15 days in 30 day period 30 days in 36 month period Permanent $862.35 $287.45 00 Temporary 00 $287.45$574.90 
 Military Clothing Maintenance Allowance
 This allowance is for replacement and maintenance of military items during and after three years of active duty. If a member has a break in military service, he/she will start over with the initial clothing allowance upon returning to the service. He/She will then receive Cash Clothing Replacement Allowance and Military Clothing Maintenance Allowance as applicable."	Clothing Allowance
"Combat Zone Tax Exclusions (CZTE)
 
 
 Being assigned to or working in a combat zone triggers another tax advantage. Earnings received while in the combat zone are excluded from taxable income. This exclusion is unlimited for enlisted members and warrant officers and is limited to $7368.30 per month in 2009, for officers. If you spend a single qualifying day in the combat zone, your pay for the entire month is excluded from taxable income.
 Bonuses and special pays are also excluded from taxable income if within the previously stated limitations and earned in the same month in which you served in a combat zone. For example, an enlisted reenlistment bonus is excluded from taxes if the member reenlists in the same month in which the member served in a combat zone. Since there is no limitation on amounts excluded for enlisted members, the entire reenlistment bonus would be excluded. As another example, an officer's flight pay would also be excluded from taxable income, but only up to the point which basic pay and the flight pay do not exceed the maximum enlisted pay amount. The Career Status Bonus received by members who may choose between High-3 and CSB/REDUX retirement plans and who elect the CSB/REDUX retirement plan also falls in this category. To be considered ""earned"" in the combat zone, the CSB/REDUX election must be accepted by the Service and considered final in the month in which the member was in the combat zone."	Combat Zone Tax Exclusions (CZTE)
"Retired Pay
 
 
 The following chart summarizes the differences between the four regular and non-regular retirement plans and disability retirement.Name of Retirement PlanType of Retirement PlanCriteria to ReceiveFinal PayDefined Benefit that equals 2.5% times the number of years of service times the member’s final basic pay on the day of retirementPrimary retirement plan for Reserve members with initial date of entry into service prior to September 8, 1980High-36Defined Benefit that equals 2.5% times the number of years of service times the average of the member’s highest 36 months of basic payPrimary retirement plan for members with initial date of entry into service on or after September 8, 1980, but before January 1, 2018REDUX
 Career Status Bonus $30,000 lump sum payment at 15th year of service with obligation to serve through 20 years + defined benefit
 Defined Benefit is
 (a) Prior to age 62:
 2.5% times the number of years of service minus 1.0% for each year of service less than 30, times the average of the member’s highest 36 months of basic pay
 (b) At age 62 and after:
 2.5% times the number of years of service times the average of the member’s highest 36 months of basic payOptional retirement plan for active duty members with an initial date of entry into service after July 31, 1986, but before January 1, 2018. Eligibility to elect the Career Status Bonus ended as of December 31, 2017Blended Retirement System (BRS)
 Blended defined benefit and defined contribution plan.
 Defined Contribution:
 All covered members receive a Government contribution that equals 1% of basic or inactive duty pay to a tax-advantaged retirement account (Thrift Savings Plan (TSP)) after 60 days following the entry into Uniformed Service. Additionally, covered members have the ability to receive up to an additional 4% matching contribution from the Government to TSP beginning after 2nd year of service through 26th year of service
 Defined Benefit:
 Members who otherwise qualify for a retirement based on longevity of service will also receive a defined benefit that is 2.0% times the number of years of service times the member’s highest 36 months of basic pay
 Only retirement plan for members with initial date of entry into service on or after January 1, 2018
 Optional retirement plan for members with an initial date of entry into service on or before December 31, 2017, who:
 (a) while on active duty, had fewer than 12 years of service as of December 31, 2017, and who elected to opt into BRS during the opt-in period; or,
 (b) while in a Reserve Component, who had fewer than 4,320 retirement points as of December 31, 2017, and who elected to opt into BRS during the opt-in periodDisability
 Retirement plan that equals to:
 Retired Pay Base* times Multiplier %**
 *Retired Pay Base – determined under Final Pay, High-36, or BRS depending on military service date of entry**Multiplier Percentage can be either:Member’s percentage of disability determined by the military serviceYears of creditable service times 2.5% or 2.0% (Based on whether the member was a participant in one of the legacy retirement programs or the Blended Retirement System prior to the disability)
 Note that in both cases the multiplier is limited to 75% by lawDetermined medically unfit for continued service with a DoD disability rating of at least 30%
 The below chart provides the basic criteria to determine which retirement plan applies:Retirement PlanCriteria to ReceiveFinal PayEntry before September 8, 1980High-36Entry on or after September 8, 1980, but before August 1, 1986 OR Entered on or after August 1, 1986, and did not choose the Career Status Bonus and REDUX retirement systemCSB/REDUXEntered on or after August 1, 1986, but before January 1, 2003 AND elected to receive the Career Status BonusBlended Retirement System (BRS)Entered the Uniformed Services for the first time on or after January 1, 2018 (automatic enrollment), or entered before December 31, 2017 and elected to opt into BRS during the opt-in periodDisabilityDetermined medically unfit for continued service with a DoD disability rating of at least 30%
 All four of the regular and non-regular retirement plans determine initial monthly retired pay by applying a percentage multiplier to the retired pay base.Retired Pay Base
 There are two methods for determining the retired pay base. They are the final pay method and the high-36 month average method. The final pay method, as the name implies, establishes the retired pay base equal to final basic pay. The high-36 method is the average of the highest 36 months of basic pay divided by 36. This is generally the last 3 years of service and is sometimes called high-3. The method used depends upon when the member first entered military service.
 The method is determined by DIEMS (Date of Initial Entry to Military Service) or DIEUS (Date of Initial Entry to Uniformed Services). The date a member first entered uniformed service in any capacity establishes DIEMS. This date is fixed---it does not change. Departing the military and rejoining does not affect DIEMS.
 Some individuals have unique circumstances that complicate determining their DIEMS. Here are a few examples:The DIEMS for Service Academy graduates who entered an Academy with no prior service is the date they reported to the Service Academy, not the date they graduated.Beginning an ROTC scholarship program or enlisting as a Reserve in the Senior ROTC program sets the DIEMS, not the graduation or commissioning date.Members who entered the military, separated, and then rejoined the military have a DIEMS based on entering the first period of military service.The DIEMS for members who enlisted under the delayed entry program is when they entered the delayed entry program, not when they initially reported for duty.For those who joined the Reserves and later joined the active component, their DIEMS is the date they joined the Reserves.
 Be aware that pay date (e.g., Pay Entry Base Date) may be different than DIEMS. Also, DIEMS does not determine when creditable service toward retirement is calculated---it only determines which retired pay base method applies.Retired Pay Multiplier
 For both the Final Pay and High-36 retired pay plans, each year of service is worth 2.5% toward the retirement multiplier. For example, 20 years of service would equal a 50% multiplier. The years of service creditable are computed differently depending upon whether retirement is from full time active duty or from a reserve career. These differences are explained under the Active Duty Retirement and Reserve Retirement pages.
 For the REDUX retirement plan, which applies only to certain active duty retirements as described above, the High-36 multiplier is reduced by one percentage point for each year that the member has less than 30 years of service at retirement. For example, 20 years of service would equal a 40% multiplier. This is discussed more fully under the Active Duty Retirement page.
 For disability retirement programs, the multiplier will be the higher of (a) the disability percentage assigned by the Service at retirement not to exceed 75%, or (b) the result of multiplying the number of years of service by the applicable retirement plan multiplier (e.g., 2.5% for High-36 or 2.0% for BRS).
 In any case, the longer an individual serves, the higher the multiplier and the higher the retirement pay. For example:Years of Service20212223242530354041Final Pay50%52.5%55%57.5%60%62.5%75%87.5%100%102.5%High-3650%52.5%55%57.5%60%62.5%75%87.5%100%102.5%REDUX40%43.5%47%50.5%54%57.5%75%87.5%100%102.5%BRS40%42%44%46%48%50%60%70%80%82%"	Retired Pay
The Blended Retirement System combines elements of the legacy retirement system with benefits similar to those offered in many civilian 401(k) plans. The opt-in period for the majority of service members closed Dec. 31, 2018. However, it's still important that you learn how to maximize your retirement choice through the information found below. If you have further questions about the Blended Retirement System or financial planning, please contact your Personnel Office.	Blended Retirement System (BRS)
"Death Gratuity
 
 
 The death gratuity program provides for a special tax free payment of $100,000 to eligible survivors of members of the Armed Forces, who die while on active duty or while serving in certain reserve statuses. The death gratuity is the same regardless of the cause of death.
 The longstanding purpose of the death gratuity has been to provide immediate cash payment to assist survivors of deceased members of the Armed forces to meet their financial needs during the period immediately following a member's death and before other survivor benefits, if any, become available.
 The death gratuity is payable for death of members in a reserve status while performing authorized travel to or from active duty, while on inactive-duty training, or while performing authorized travel directly to or from active duty for training or inactive duty training, as well as, members of reserve officers' training programs who die while performing annual training duty under orders for a period of more than 13 days or while performing authorized travel to or from that duty, to applicants for membership in reserve officers' training corps who die while attending travelling to or from field training or a practice cruise and to persons travelling to from or while at a place of acceptance for entry upon active duty.
 The death gratuity is also payable if an eligible member or former member dies within 120 days of release or discharge from active duty, or active duty for training when the Secretary of Veterans Affairs determines that the death resulted from injury or disease incurred or aggravated during such duty.Eligible Survivor
 
 Prior to May 25, 2007, the death gratuity was payable according to a specific hierarchy prescribed in law with limited opportunity for the member to designate a beneficiary.
 
 Since July 1, 2008, a member may designate any person or persons to receive up to 100% of the death gratuity (in 10% increments) with any remaining undesignated amount payable according to a new prescribed hierarchy. The new beneficiary hierarchy for the amount of the death gratuity not covered by a designation shall be paid as follows:
 
 To the surviving spouse of the person, if any.If there is no surviving spouse, to any surviving children (as prescribed in the note for item 2 of the pre-2008 hierarchy, above) of the person and the descendants of any deceased children by representation.If there is none of the above, to the surviving parents of the person or the survivor of them.If there is none of the above, to the duly appointed executor or administrator of the estate of the person.If there is none of the above, to other next of kin of the person entitled under the laws of domicile of the person at the time of the person's death.Notes:
 
 Item (1), Surviving Spouse. If a person has a spouse, but designates a person other than the spouse to receive all or or a portion of the amount payable, the Secretary of the Military Department shall provide notice of the designation to the spouse.
 
 Item (3), Treatment of Parents. Parents include fathers and mothers through adoption. However, only one father and one mother may be recognized in any case, and preference shall be given to those who exercised a parental relationship on the date, or most nearly before the date, on which the decedent entered military service.
 
 If a person entitled to all or a portion of a death gratuity dies before the person recieves the death gratuity, it shall be paid to the living survivor next in the order prescribed.
 
 Designation of Eligible Survivors
 
 Members may designate eligible survivors, at any time, by updating their DD Form 93, Record of Emergency Data."	Death Gratuity
"Savings Deposit Program
 
 
 The DOD Savings Deposit Program (SDP) was established to provide members of the uniformed services serving in a designated combat zones the opportunity to build their financial savings. Amounts up to $10,000.00 may be deposited, earning 10% interest annually. Members must be receiving Hostile Fire Pay and be deployed for at least 30 consecutive days, or 1 day in each of 3 consecutive months in order to participate in the program.
 
 Withdrawal Procedures:
 
 Withdrawal request may be e-mailed to CCL-SDP@dfas.mil (SDP mailbox), or faxed to (216) 522-5060 ""Attention: SDP"". Members may submit a withdrawal request on-line using myPay. Additionally, requests can be mailed to the following address:
 
 
 DFAS- Cleveland Center (DFAS-CL)
 
 ATTN: SDP
 
 Special Claims
 
 1240 East 9th St .
 
 Cleveland , OH 44199-2055
 
 Members must include name, social security number, and date of departure from the combat zone. Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) information must include the bank name, routing number, account number, and account type (savings or checking). If a hard copy check is requested, a complete mailing address must also be provided. Make sure that your allotment has stopped before requesting withdrawal.
 
 Withdrawals:
 
 Members may close their SDP accounts only after departing the combat zone. Interest will continue to accrue on the account up to 90 days after departure from the combat zone. Should the 90 day period end on any day other than the last day of a month, interest will accrue through the last day of the preceding month. If the 90-day period ends on the last day of a month, interest accrues for that month. Members in a combat zone may withdraw accrued interest over the $10,000.00 principal quarterly. Withdrawals of funds on deposit may be made in an emergency only when the health or welfare of a member or dependents would be jeopardized if the withdrawal were not granted. Emergency withdrawals must be authorized by the members' commanding officer.
 
 SDP Help Line:
 
 Toll Free (Stateside Only): 1-888-332-7411
 Commercial: 216-522-5096
 DSN: 580-5096
 Fax: (Attention SDP): 216-522-5060
 E-mail: CCL-SDP@dfas.mil"	Savings Deposit Program
Step-by-step guide to filing a DTS Voucher	DTS Guide: Vouchers
"SDAP is authorized for enlisted members proficient in a designated military skill or assigned duties demanding an uncommon degree of responsibility.
 
 
 In order to pay SDAP for qualifying members, the Unit Commander must certify a DD Form 114 to Finance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 *SDAP will only be paid to members who were in a pay status and have a current AF Form 2096.*"	Special Duty Assignment Pay (SDAP)
"1. COMPLETE THE AF 594
 2. ATTACH SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION. I.E. MARRIAGE CERTIFICATE, BIRTH CERTIFICATE, DEATH CERTIFICATE, DIVORCE DECREE
 3. UPDATE DEERS WITH FSS/PERSONNEL"	UPDATING YOUR BAH & DEPENDENTS
LOG INTO MYPAY, SELECT ACCOUNT (IF YOU HAVE MULTIPLE), UNDER PAY CHANGES SELECT DIRECT DEPOSIT, AND CLICK THE PENCIL TO EDIT.	UPDATING EFT/DIRECT DEPOSIT
LOG INTO MYPAY, SELECT ACCOUNT (IF YOU HAVE MULTIPLE), UNDER PAY CHANGES SELECT FEDERAL OR STATE, AND CLICK THE PENCIL TO EDIT.	UPDATING FEDERAL OR STATE WITHHOLDING
LOG INTO MYPAY, SELECT ACCOUNT (IF YOU HAVE MULTIPLE), UNDER PAY CHANGES SELECT MAILING ADDRESS, AND CLICK THE PENCIL TO EDIT.	UPDATING MAILING ADDRESS
PLEASE COMPLETE THE ATTACHED PACKET. BE SURE TO INCLUDE SGLI ELECTION, SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS FOR BAH, AO IF APPLICALBE.	NEW AGR INPROCESSING
PLEASE COMPLETE THE ATTACHED PACKET. BE SURE TO INCLUDE SGLI ELECTION, SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS FOR BAH, AO IF APPLICALBE.	NEW/TRANSFER TRADITIONAL GUARDSMAN INPROCESSING
PLEASE COMPLETE THE ATTACHED PACKET. BE SURE TO INCLUDE ALL AGR ORDERS. REVIEW THE BRIEFING SLIDES	AGR SEPARATION/RETIREMENT
"B.1. GENERAL INFORMATION:
 B.1.1. Every DJMS-RC Leave Master Record (LMR) contains a record of the member’s
 leave account for orders over 30 consecutive days; LMR includes active duty order, leave
 balance, leave brought forward, number of days taken, leave departure and return dates, and
 type of leave taken.
 B.1.2. At the end of an active duty tour, the Air National Guard member must make an election
 within 60 days of release from active duty, using an AF Form 1089 for leave settlement or
 carry forward leave to a future active duty tour. When consecutive tours are involved, a
 member may be reimbursed for unused accrued leave or it may be carried forward, at the
 member’s option, until completion of the final tour.
 B.1.3. An Air National Guard Member who is released from active duty, discharged, or
 separated under honorable conditions is entitled to payment of accrued leave unless the
 member elects to carry leave forward to next period of active service. Payments for unused
 leave cannot be made for more than 60 days during a military career, unless the service
 member meets one of the sections outlined below from DoD FMR Vol 7A, Ch 35,
 Paragraph 350201.A.4:
 B.1.3.1 Leave is accrued during Contingency Operations:
 B.1.3.1.1 Serving on active duty in support of a contingency operation on or after 5 Dec
 1991
 B.1.3.1.2 Serving on active duty under on or after 2 Aug 1990 in support of T10 United
 States Code (U.S.C.) sections 688, 12301, 12302, 12304, 12306, or 12307.
 B.1.3.2 Leave is accrued on an active duty order during a period of more than 30 days, but
 not in excess of 365 days.
 B.1.3.3 Leave is accrued by a member who dies while on active duty (or a member or former
 member who dies after retirement or discharge, but before receiving payment of accrued
 leave)."	LEAVE ACCRUAL
"Member Election. Member completes makes leave election for leave
 settlement or leave carry-over using the AF Form 1089 and provides
 to FM for processing. Note: Additional process and documentation
 outlined in ANG Leave Carry Over Program Policy, Section 3, must
 be followed for leave carry over election.
 
 
 Member DOES NOT respond within 60 days of notification.
 FM is authorized to process leave settlement if member is discharged
 or separated under honorable conditions."	LEAVE SELL
PLEASE SEE ATTACHED CALULATOR	HOW TO CALCULATE LEAVE EARNED ON A LONG TOUR
PLEASE USE THE AF 988. COMPLETE BLOCKS 1-21. BE SURE TO HAVE A SUPERVISOR COMPLETE BLOCKS 22-25. PART I WILL BE COMPLETED PRIOR TO LEAVE, PART II THE MEMBER WILL KEEP, AND PART III WILL BE RETURNED TO THE FINANCE OFFICE AFTER LEAVE HAS CONCLUDED. BLOCKS 1-20 AND SECTION III A-E TO INCLUDE APPROVERS BLOCKS.	HOW TO SUBMIT FOR LEAVE ON A LONG TOUR
"You will complete the attached form for all periods or orders that qualify for SDAP 1st Sgt duties, have your commander sign, include all orders/105s and refer back to our office for processing.
 
 
 
 Recommend doing this quarterly or semi-annually."	SPECIAL DUTY ASSIGNMENT PAY (SDAP) FOR 1ST SHIRTS
For guidance and forms, visit Budget & Accounting (dps.mil).	Budget & Accounting
"PLEASE USE THE ATTACHED AF 1969 AND INCLUDE THE ORDERS THAT QUALIFIED YOUR FOR THIS ENTITLEMENT. 
 
 
 COMPLETE BLOCKS 1-6, BLOCK 7 WILL BE FINANCE, THEN COMPLETE BLOCK 9 A OR B. WHICHEVER IS APLLICABLE FOR YOUR CLAIM."	OFFICER CLOTHING ALLOWANCE
"ANG members who are renting or leasing property or space from a relative must provide proof of
 payment in addition to the lease or rental agreement. Proof of payment must reflect the name of the
 landlord listed on the lease or rental agreement. Those attending Basic Military Training (BMT) must
 provide a lease and proof of payment that commenced prior to the BMT order certification date.
 Acceptable forms of proof is limited to the payment methods listed below:
 
 
 § Cancelled Check
 § Copy of Cashier’s Check
 § Copy of Money Order
 § Electronic Payment (i.e. Pay Pal, Electronic Bill Pay, VENMO)
 
 
 For BMT attendees, BAH is only payable while the lease is in effect. Any Service member who
 submits a claim for a housing allowance that contains a false statement is subject to court-martial or
 criminal prosecution. Please direct any questions or concerns to Mr. Devon Blackwell, DSN 612-9051 or
 commercial 240-612-9051."	BMT BAH REQUIREMENTS
IN ORDER TO RECEIVE HARDSHIP DUTY PAY, COMBAT ZONE TAX EXLUSION, AND HOSTILE FIRE PAY FOR YOUR DEPLOYED LOACTION YOU WILL NEED TO CONTACT OUR OFFICE UPON ARRIVAL IN THE AOR. THIS WILL INCLUDE THE DATE YOU ARRIVED, MEMBERS IN YOUR GROUP (IF APPLICABLE) AND YOUR CED ORDER.	STARTING YOUR DEPLOYMENT ENTITLEMENTS
PLEASE CONTACT OUR OFFICE TO OUTPROCESS. WE WILL REVIEW YOUR ENITRE RECORD TO INCLUDE AROWS, DTS, GTC, LEAVE, DEBTS, MYPAY AND MORE.	TRADITIONAL GUARDSMAN SEPARATION OR TRANSFER
"Need to take leave:
 1. Complete AF Form 988 Part I (member and approver digitally signs form)
 2. Return to CPTF using the Comptroller Services Portal (CSP)
 3. CPTF will verify available balance and assign leave number 
 4. Member will receive notification once CPTF has resolved case (assigned leave number)
 5. Returning from leave, complete part III (member and approver digitally signs form)
 6.Return to CPTF using the Cpmptroller Services Portal (CSP)
 
 
 ***FULL-TIME AGR'S will need to use LEAVEWEB"	AF Form 988
"Certifiers Role
 - ensure all timecards for their assigned employees are approved on accurately and on time
 - ensure all compensatory time claimed must be documented on 'Premium Leave request'
 - CANNOT adjust employee timecards
 - approve/disapprove leave requests- capable of viewing leave balances of employees on their assigned teams
 Answer:-
 Requirements for ATAAPS Certifier:
 1. DD2875-Completed with all 3 signatures. Block 13 must include which team(s) requesting access to
 2. Annual Certifier Training
 
 Only upload the last digitally signed page
 
 3. NGB Required 20.01 Certifier TrainingOnly upload the last digitally signed page
 
 
 4. DAO 101 Training 
 https://fams.cce.af.mil/pub/content/saffm/notice.html?u=https%3A%2F%2Ffams.cce.af.mil%2F
 
 5. DD577
 
 -I will initiate the request in FAMS and you will receive an email with instructions. The FAMS email must route to your @us.af.mil account.
 6. Annual Specialized PII Training Requirements
 https://dl.cyber.mil/trn/online/disa_pii_v40_final_web/launch.html"	ATAAPS Certifier Requirements
Attached is the current AF Form 1089 and the instructions on how to complete the form	Leave - Carry Forward /or Cash Settlement
BAH Recertification/Adjustment	AF Form 594
"If you have experienced a significant change to your life, you may need to make changes to your pay information. If one of the following events applies to you, open the attached document and follow the appropriate guidance.
 - Married / Separated / Divorced
 - Birth / Adoption
 - Change of address
 - Change of unit"	Life Changes Affecting Your Pay
The Direct Deposit form is required for your Military and Travel Pay. This helps us ensure the payment is sent to the correct banking establishment.	EXAMPLE Direct Deposit Form
Fillable form.	Direct Deposit Form
Please load[enter dollar amount] into ORG[enter supply ORG] under Cost Center[enter your Cost Center] for a new ORG total of[enter total dollar amount loaded into supply].	Supply Load Request
Please load[enter dollar amount] to DTS LOA Label[enter DTS line of accounting].	DTS Load Request
Please increase[quarter number] quarter authority for[organization/squadron] from[current amount] to[new amount].	O&M Quarterly Authority Increase Request
"Submit: 
 
 
 AF Form 1089
 Applicable AROWS Orders-w/Mods"	Leave-Sell/Transfer
"Submit: 
 
 
 AF Form 594
 -if applicable-
 Marriage Certificate 
 Children's Birth Certificate
 Divorce Decree"	BAH Update
"For members new to the wing or starting new Perm AGR tour
 
 
 Submit: 
 -completed in-processing package (attached)
 -SGLI 
 -Marriage certificates/Birth certificates for children/Divorce decree
 -DD Form 4
 -DD214 (if prior marines or navy) 
 - in-processing checklist for Finance to sign and return 
 
 
 Members in-processing Temp AGR
  
 Submit: 
 -AROWS orders manually signed by member and attendance validator 
 
 
 New Members only-DTS must be initiated/transferred in 
 
 Self-Register in DTS if member does not already have a profile-https://dtsproweb.defensetravel.osd.mil/dts-app/pubsite/all/view/Go to the DTS website, scroll down to TRAX-https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/neoaccess/login.phpComplete CBTS & submit to FinanceAbout DTSDTS Travel Documents (DTS 10)Program & Policies-TDY Travel Policies 101"	Military In-Processing (NEW MEMBER & PERM)
AFPC - Leave Carryover Guidance	Leave - Carryover Guidance
"To schedule a PCS brief, the following needs to be submitted to complete the package:
 
 Member’s Full Name and SSN:
 Approximate Dates of PCS order:
 Dependents
 Spouse’s Full Name and SSN:
 Children’s Full Name and Birthdates:
 HOR Zip Code:
 New Duty Location Zip Code:
 How many vehicles will be driven (max of 2):
 
 Backup documentation for bank account information will need to be provided at the time of the brief. Ensure supervisor also attends."	PCS Entitlements Brief
"Complete the traveler portion of all three attached documents.
 
 
 Include all receipts for airfare, lodging, weight tickets, and categories of expenses greater than or equal to $75."	PCS Voucher
"Submit: 
 
 
 -AROWS Orders manually signed by member and attendance validator"	Military In-Processing (TEMP)
DTS Lines of Accounting Cheat Sheet, visit Budget & Accounting (dps.mil).	DTS Lines of Accounting Cheat Sheet
"Part 1: Submit paperwork to claim mileage and per diem
 
 
 -AROWS Orders
 
 -Form 1351-2 (include # POV's and complete itinerary) 
 -Direct deposit form 
 
 
 Part 2: Submit paperwork for DITY if applicable
 
 
 -AROWS Orders
 -Form 1351-2 (no itinerary needed-TMO typically assists with filling out) 
 -PPM Checklist from TMO 
 -All receipts 
 -TWO DD2278 filled out by TMO (One signed by member, the other by TMO) 
 -Direct Deposit form"	PCS Documents
"-Self register @ https://dtsproweb.defensetravel.osd.mil/dts-app/pubsite/all/view (not applicable if member has a profile already) 
 -Complete required CBTS @ https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/neoaccess/login.php
 1. About DTS 
 2. DTS Travel Documents (DTS 101) 
 3. Program & Policy-TDY Travel Policies 101
 -Submit certificates to finance"	DTS Profile
"Members- Contact your Unit APC for new applications, replacement cards, and maintenance 
 
 
 APC's- For Access, submit the following
 -Programs & Policies-Travel Card Program Management (TRAX)
 -Signed SoU 
 -APC Training Certificate 
 -Appointment letter"	APC-Travel Card
Use this form for Leave	Leave
"Would you like to update your change of legal residence? Use DD Form 2058. 
 Please, fill out all sections and ensure you use a CAC-enabled signature or wet-sign."	Updating State of Legal Residence
"If you need to update your dependency status and add or remove a dependent, please fill out AF Form 594.
 Fill out all highlighted sections. Ensure it is a CAC-enabled signature or wet-sign."	Updating Dependent Status
"How to use CSP Video: 
 https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/14034/HQ/CPTF/Training%20Aids%20Tools%20%20Checklist/Comptroller%20Service%20Portal%20(CSP)%20Live%20Training%20Recording%202022.mp4"	Comptroller Service Portal (CSP) Live Training Recording 2022
October Annoucements	October 2022 CPTF Bulletin
SAMPLE 938 FOR FILLING OUT A SHORT TOUR ORDER FOR PAY (FIRST OPTION SHOULD ALWAYS BE TODC THROUGH AROWS)	SHORT TOUR 938 GUIDANCE/EXAMPLE
If you are new to the 920th RQW and are a TR or ART, you will need to fill out the attached package. It does not matter if you've been in the Reserve Pay system in the past. Be sure to double check the banking information (Acct/Route #'s).	Military Pay Newcomer Package
BLANK LEAVE FORM (988). Fill out applicable boxes and have supervisor signature before turning in for leave number. Leave days must be accumulated before a leave number will be issued (unless applying for advance leave, then extra boxes are to be filled in).	BLANK 988 (LEAVE FORM)
Checklist/examples to ensure proper leave carry over.	LEAVE CARRY OVER GUIDANCE
Example of a completed leave form (988).	EXAMPLE OF COMPLETED LEAVE FORM REQUEST (988)
To sell back leave earned on a tour of duty 30 days or more, submit a completed AF Form 1089, 1934 and the applicable AROWS order.	Leave Sell Back
Members may claim FSA if they are TDY or on an unaccompanied PCS tour by submitting a DD 1561 (instructions attached) and the applicable AROWS order and DTS voucher (instructions attached).	Family Sep Allowance
FY23 - Funds Request form. We are currently operating under Continuing Resolution Authority through16 Dec 2022. To request local MILPERS and O&M BOC resources, Resource Advisors will need to complete & sign this form and submit via CSP for processing.	FY23 Resource Request Form (thru 16 Dec 2022)
Here is a finance 101 guide for student flight members.	Student Flight Finance 101 Guide
Here is a finance 101 guide for DSGs. This is not for student flight members (separate student flight finance 101 guide)	DSG FINANCE 101 GUIDE
This how-to will walk you through submitting your Travel Card 101 certificate and your Statement of Understanding to Finance to fulfill the 3 year requirement.	How to Submit GTC Forms to CPTF
"Separation/Retirement Briefing:
 
 
 Every Tuesday & Friday @ 1330
 20 People Max (10-in person & 10 via Teams)
 **Please sign-up once you have separation/retirement orders.**
 
 
 
 
 For those attending in-person: 
 **Members just need to come to the counter and let the technician know they are there to attend the briefing**
 
 
 Link to Sign-Up: (Must sign-up regardless if attending via Teams or In-Person)
 https://15cpts0484.setmore.com
 
 
 For those attending via Teams:
 
 Teams Link:
 https://dod.teams.microsoft.us/l/channel/19%3adod%3a8986289d2ed34f8f8e01a6a48fb5022b%40thread.tacv2/15%2520CPTS%2520SEPARATIONS%2520RETIREMENT?groupId=6c9f131b-615c-402e-ad90-9394946bc2d2&tenantId=8331b18d-2d87-48ef-a35f-ac8818ebf9b4
 
 
 The packet must be completed and two copies of your orders and/or amendments provided when attending brief."	Separation / Retirement Information & Packet
Please complete the new gain packet to be in-processed.	New Gain Packet (DSG)
"TLR, 
 
 
 Due to manning impacts there will be a 5-7 business day turn around for completion of inquiries involving Retirement or Separation processing. Please complete the attached package prior to CSP inquiry submission to ensure that your inquiry is processed within a timely manner. Thank you.
 
 
 V/r, 
 
 
 Financial Operations Flight"	Retirement/Separation Time Lines
"At the end of a tour of duty, the service member can take the option to sell or transfer leave to a further tour of duty. Leave accrued and sold on tours less than 365 days or in support of a contingency does not count against the member’s 60-day career balance. 
 Required Documents:AF Form 1089 (Below)Official Copy of Orders"	Leave Sell
"Required Attachments: GTC Statement of Understanding (Attached)GTC 101 Training Certificate 
 How To apply for a new GTC: Passport (dod.mil)
 1- Go to the DTS home page (Do NOT log in). Scroll to the bottom on the page and click on the TRAX Travel Explorer link. (Looks like a muddy boot) 
 2- Once logged into the TRAX page, click on the TRAINING Tab at the top middle. Make sure to click on VIEW ALL right next to all the tabs on the top.
 3- Complete the “Programs & Policies - Travel Card Program (Travel Card 101) [MANDATORY]” in the TRAX website and print certificate of completion"	GTC Application
"Member with dependents is entitled when on Temporary Duty away from PDS/HOR continuously for more than 30 days, and the dependents do not reside at or near the Temporary Duty station. Payable upon member's return from TDY or started 31 days after member has departed. 
 
 
 Required Documents: DD 1561(print and sign attached document) Official Copy of Orders Copy of completed travel voucher or completed travel authorization"	Family Separation Allowance - TDY
"Members with dependents. Transportation of dependents is not authorized at government expense and the dependents do not live at or near the member's PDS. Pay starts 30 days after member's departure date on travel voucher. 
 
 
 Required Documents: DD 1561 (print and sign below attachment)Official Copy of PCS Order Completed PCS travel voucher (DD 1351-2)"	Family Separation Allowance - Restricted PCS
"The purpose of this certificate is to obtain information with respect to your legal residence/domicile for the purpose of determining the State for which income
 taxes are to be withheld from your ""wages"" as defined by Section 3401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954. PLEASE READ INSTRUCTIONS CAREFULLY
 BEFORE SIGNING.
 
 
 Finance requires that you present this form with a clear indication that you intend to make the new state your legal residence. 
 
 
 
 Your intent to make the new State your permanent home may be indicated by certain actions such as: (1) registering to vote; (2) purchasing residential property or an unimproved residential lot; (3) titling and registering your automobile(s); (4) notifying the State of your previous legal residence/domicile of the change in your State of legal residence/domicile; and (5) preparing a new last will and testament which indicates your new State of legal residence/domicile. Finally, you must comply with the applicable tax laws of the State which is your new legal residence/domicile."	State of Legal Residence
"Please read the attached PDF for straight forward guidance on ""what is a valid receipt?"". The original file is located at <https://media.defense.gov/2022/Oct/20/2003099851/-1/-1/0/WHAT-IS-A-VALID-RECEIPT.PDF>"	What is a Valid Receipt?
Attached is the new leave form. Updated 20221001	New AF988 Leave Form 20221001
"Timekeepers Role
 - coordinate with certifiers ensuring all timecards are certified minimally by the Wednesday during week 2 of a pay period
 - ensure all compensatory time is claimed on the time card and must have a correlating premium request approved
 - adjust timecards
 - CANNOT submit leave requests
 - CANNOT concur your timecard
 - CANNOT approve/disapprove leave
 
 
 Requirements for ATAAPS Timekeeper:
 
 1. DD2875
 -Completed with all 3 signatures. Which team(s) will you need access to as a Timekeeper? Must annotate in block 13.
 2. Annual Timekeeper training certificate-Digitally sign and submit certificate of completion ONLY the last page3. NGB Required training
 -Digitally sign and submit certificate of completion ONLY the last page4. Annual Specialized PII Training Requirements
 https://dl.cyber.mil/trn/online/disa_pii_v40_final_web/launch.html"	ATAAPS Timekeeper Requirements
Fill out the BAH Form according to your current marital/dependent status.	BAH 594 Form
Please use this form for all new BAH requests and recertifications. Discontinue use of the previous form.	DAF 594 - BAH Certification (updated)
Attach this form along with DAF 594 when your spouse is another military member.	Military married to Military (BAH)
Provides pertinent civilian payroll processing dates for Tinker AFB and Mission Partners	2023 Civilian Payroll Processing Calendar
Our office is aware that members are not receiving notifications when there is a status update regarding inquiries. Please ensure that you are frequently checking the status of your inquiry if you have not received an email notification that your inquiry has been closed. We are reaching out to the helpdesk for assistance.	***CSP STATUS UPDATE NOTIFICATIONS***
"The purpose of this document is to identify travel and transportation allowances payable to Service members, civilian employees, and invitational travelers. 
 
 
 This guide distills essential travel knowledge and provides references in the Joint Travel Regulation, enabling further research, if necessary."	DoD Travel Allowance Guidance - JTR Appendix B
"DTMO website is a one stop shop for travel policies, tools and references!
 
 
 Defense Travel Management Office | Home (dod.mil)"	Travel Policies, Tools and References
"As of 31 December 2022, Tinker AFB Lodging is officially closed. 
 
 
 Personnel who are traveling to Tinker AFB will now receive Non-Availability letters due to no on-base lodging.
 Personnel who are traveling TDY will not be able to select Tinker Lodging as an option in the Defense Travel System. Non-Availability letters will be available for members when processing their travel vouchers upon their return. Employees and service members who are accomplishing a permanent change of station, or PCS, to or from Tinker AFB will receive the Non-Availability letter during in- or out-processing. It can also be found on Tinker’s Comptroller Services Portal site.
 Air Force Inns lodging facility on Tinker AFB permanently closed December 31."	Tinker Lodging Non-Availability
"Thefollowingstepsmustbeutilizedtorequestauthorizationnumbers,process existing leave and to sell/keep/carry forward leave.
 
 
 Read Attached File for more information. 
 
 
 Use AF988 and AF1089 below. Open in Adobe and click 'Enable All Features' to view."	LEAVE PROCESS
In order for your HHG/DITY move to pay on time and accurately, you will need a 2278 signed by TMO, an expense checklist worksheet, a 1351-2, a FULL and EMPTY weight ticket, and, a copy of your PCS orders. Please ensure you read every item on the expense checklist.	PPM Documentation
Leave Request/Authorization Form	Leave Request/Authorization DAF988
Members who need to change their state for taxes will complete the DD2058	DD2058 - State of Legal Residence
"CSP Customer Training can be found here: https://lms-jets.cce.af.mil/moodle/enrol/index.php?id=13122
 
 
 It provides a full walk-through demo of the system!"	CSP Customer Training
"Complete a new Application for Basic Allowance for Housing if any of the following apply:
 -I got married
 - I got divorced
 - I'm legally seperated
 - I had a child"	DAF Form 594
Most current version_20221220	Updated 988 Leave Charge Form
"FY23 Unfunded Requests via CPTF Sharepoint
 
 
 Comptroller Flight - 145AW Unfunded Request - All Items (dps.mil)
 
 
 (see attached instructions for submission process)"	FY23 - Unfunded Requirements (UFRs) Suspense: 1 JUNE 2023
Government Travel Charge Card Statement of Understanding. Needs to be completed every 3 years; complete the form and submit to financial management using a CSP inquiry.	GTCC SOU
"For payment of Family Separation Allowance (FSA), a copy of the DTS Authorization (CED orders are also acceptable) and DTS approved and paid travel voucher are required. FSA cannot be paid until your DTS voucher has been finalized.
 
 
 A screenshot has been attached as an example of what the form printing preferences in DTS should look like to ensure that the forms are printed in the correct DD1351-2 and DD1610 format. 
 
 
 This information can be found by logging into DTS, and choosing the option to edit profile (clicking name in the top right hand corner after logging in).
 
 
 Once the DTS voucher has been approved and paid, please attach the authorization and voucher and resubmit and we will be able to process the allowance as requested."	DD 1561-Statement to Substantiate payment of Family Separation Allowance
"PCS in-processing is held every Monday and Friday at 0900, and every Wednesday at 1330. This briefing is located in building 323C, room 141.
 
 
 Please bring the following items when you attend:PCS Orders All PCS related receiptsHardcopy of Airfare ItinerariesLodging Receipts"	PCS In-Processing Briefings
"All out-processing actions are now required to be accomplished during our mandatory separation/retirement briefing.
 
 
 This briefing is held every Tuesday at 1330, in building 323C, room 141.
 
 
 
 
 During this briefing, the required separation/retirement packet will be provided and completed, it will be reviewed for accuracy, and your terminal/permissive TDY leaves and vMPF checklist will be authorized and signed as required. 
 
 
 Please ensure you bring a copy of your separation/retirement orders along with you to this briefing."	Separation and Retirement Out-Processing
Please download and save the attached form, DAF 594. This form will be need to be completed and provided to our office along with a copy of the marriage certificate or divorce decree, whichever applies. Once received, changes to BAH will be applied to the pay record as required, based on the member's dependency status.	Marriage/Divorce BAH Update
"Please be aware that when booking lodging for reschedules you or your unit must provide the 40A to lodging front desk at time of check-in to ensure the direct billing to unit occurs.
 
 To make sure FM has everything needed to complete a reimbursement make sure the following is attached to your CSP ticket.
 Signed 40AMFR with date you used ALRS to book your stay and explanation as to why 40A(s) were not provided to front desk, with your signature along with your supervisor and/or 1st Sgt.SF1034 -https://www.gsa.gov/Forms/TrackForm/32752Paid in full lodging receiptSF1199A (Direct Deposit Form) -https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-utl/sf-1199-a_dirdeposit.pdf
 
 
 
 Please keep in mind that when payment is processed that it will pay to you directly and will not pay your GTC if you used it. GTC will be individual responsibility to pay"	SF1034 - Claim for Lodging Reimbursement
Power point training on certifying time cards.	ATAAPS Certifier Training
Power point training on entering time cards.	ATAAPS Employee Training
Power point training on timekeeper functions.	ATAAPS Timekeeper Training
MILPAY Graph	MILPAY GRAPH
New In-Processing excel to help complete the travel voucher and finance in-processing.	PCS In-Processing Excel - New (May 2023)
"If you need to be signed off in VMPF for Finance, please create a CSP ticket and include the following.
 
 
 1. Copy of your PCS orders
 
 
 2. State when your final out date in the description field"	Virtual Out-processing
"Temporary Lodging Expense (TLE) may be authorized for 7or 14 days, depending on the location of the new Permanent Duty Station (PDS). See JTR, Table 5-13 for detailed information on authorized TLE locations and time limits. See Locations with Approved TLE Extensions [PDF, 2 pages] for locations where TLE may be authorized up to 60 days.
 
 
 
 CONUS to CONUS - 14 Days
 OCONUS to CONUS - 14 Days
 CONUS to OCONUS - 7 Days
 
 
 Tinker Max Lodging Rate $104 per day
 CONTINENTAL US Per Diem Rates: Query Results (dod.mil)
 
 
 Tinker Max Per Diem $168
 
 
 TLE is capped at $290 per day
 
 
 For members PCSing out of Tinker, you will file your TLE at your gaining base. Please take with you the attached MFR, as our Lodging closed 31 Dec 22. 
 
 
 For additional questions please use the link below
 Temporary Lodging Expenses > Defense Travel Management Office > FAQs | Defense Travel Management Office (dod.mil)"	Temporary Lodging Expense (TLE)
